This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
Produced by: an anonymous Project Gutenberg volunteer and Jose Menendez
   I.     A Scandal in Bohemia
   VIII.  The Adventure of the Speckled Band
mention her under any other name. In his eyes she eclipses and
akin to love for Irene Adler. All emotions, and that one particularly,
was, I take it, the most perfect reasoning and observing machine that
and a sneer. They were admirable things for the observer—excellent for
drawing the veil from men’s motives and actions. But for the trained
reasoner to admit such intrusions into his own delicate and finely
yet there was but one woman to him, and that woman was the late Irene
Adler, of dubious and questionable memory.
from each other. My own complete happiness, and the home-centred
books, and alternating from week to week between cocaine and ambition,
the drowsiness of the drug, and the fierce energy of his own keen
and occupied his immense faculties and extraordinary powers of
observation in following out those clues, and clearing up those
mysteries which had been abandoned as hopeless by the official police.
of the singular tragedy of the Atkinson brothers at Trincomalee, and
finally of the mission which he had accomplished so delicately and
successfully for the reigning family of Holland. Beyond these signs of
the daily press, I knew little of my former friend and companion.
door, which must always be associated in my mind with my wooing, and
keen desire to see Holmes again, and to know how he was employing his
extraordinary powers. His rooms were brilliantly lit, and, even as I
head sunk upon his chest and his hands clasped behind him. To me, who
knew his every mood and habit, his attitude and manner told their own
dreams and was hot upon the scent of some new problem. I rang the bell
and was shown up to the chamber which had formerly been in part my own.
me to an armchair, threw across his case of cigars, and indicated a
spirit case and a gasogene in the corner. Then he stood before the fire
and looked me over in his singular introspective fashion.
on seven and a half pounds since I saw you.”
yourself very wet lately, and that you have a most clumsy and careless
country walk on Thursday and came home in a dreadful mess, but as I
Jane, she is incorrigible, and my wife has given her notice, but there,
He chuckled to himself and rubbed his long, nervous hands together.
deduction that you had been out in vile weather, and that you had a
forefinger, and a bulge on the right side of his top-hat to show where
“Quite so,” he answered, lighting a cigarette, and throwing himself
both seen and observed. By the way, since you are interested in these
little problems, and since you are good enough to chronicle one or two
The note was undated, and without either signature or address.
chamber then at that hour, and do not take it amiss if your visitor
I carefully examined the writing, and the paper upon which it was
be bought under half a crown a packet. It is peculiarly strong and
I did so, and saw a large “E” with a small “g,” a “P,” and a large “G”
“Not at all. The ‘G’ with the small ‘t’ stands for ‘Gesellschaft,’
our ‘Co.’ ‘P,’ of course, stands for ‘Papier.’ Now for the ‘Eg.’ Let us
as being the scene of the death of Wallenstein, and for its numerous
glass-factories and paper-mills.’ Ha, ha, my boy, what do you make of
that?” His eyes sparkled, and he sent up a great blue triumphant cloud
writes upon Bohemian paper and prefers wearing a mask to showing his
As he spoke there was the sharp sound of horses’ hoofs and grating
the window. “A nice little brougham and a pair of beauties. A hundred
and fifty guineas apiece. There’s money in this case, Watson, if there
“Never mind him. I may want your help, and so may he. Here he comes.
Sit down in that armchair, Doctor, and give us your best attention.”
A slow and heavy step, which had been heard upon the stairs and in the
passage, paused immediately outside the door. Then there was a loud and
in height, with the chest and limbs of a Hercules. His dress was rich
with a richness which would, in England, be looked upon as akin to bad
taste. Heavy bands of astrakhan were slashed across the sleeves and
thrown over his shoulders was lined with flame-coloured silk and
beryl. Boots which extended halfway up his calves, and which were
carried a broad-brimmed hat in his hand, while he wore across the upper
mask, which he had apparently adjusted that very moment, for his hand
and a long, straight chin suggestive of resolution pushed to the length
“You had my note?” he asked with a deep harsh voice and a strongly
“Pray take a seat,” said Holmes. “This is my friend and colleague, Dr.
understand that this gentleman, your friend, is a man of honour and
I rose to go, but Holmes caught me by the wrist and pushed me back into
person who employs me wishes his agent to be unknown to you, and I may
“The circumstances are of great delicacy, and every precaution has to
be taken to quench what might grow to be an immense scandal and
his armchair and closing his eyes.
most incisive reasoner and most energetic agent in Europe. Holmes
slowly reopened his eyes and looked impatiently at his gigantic client.
The man sprang from his chair and paced up and down the room in
the mask from his face and hurled it upon the ground. “You are right,”
Ormstein, Grand Duke of Cassel-Felstein, and hereditary King of
“But you can understand,” said our strange visitor, sitting down once
more and passing his hand over his high white forehead, “you can
understand that I am not accustomed to doing such business in my own
all paragraphs concerning men and things, so that it was difficult to
information. In this case I found her biography sandwiched in between
that of a Hebrew rabbi and that of a staff-commander who had written a
Majesty, as I understand, became entangled with this young person,
wrote her some compromising letters, and is now desirous of getting
“We have tried and failed.”
Scandinavia. You may know the strict principles of her family. She is
has the face of the most beautiful of women, and the mind of the most
The King took a heavy chamois leather bag from under his cloak and laid
“There are three hundred pounds in gold and seven hundred in notes,” he
Holmes scribbled a receipt upon a sheet of his note-book and handed it
“Then, good-night, your Majesty, and I trust that we shall soon have
yet returned. The landlady informed me that he had left the house
surrounded by none of the grim and strange features which were
the nature of the case and the exalted station of his client gave it a
investigation which my friend had on hand, there was something in his
masterly grasp of a situation, and his keen, incisive reasoning, which
made it a pleasure to me to study his system of work, and to follow the
It was close upon four before the door opened, and a drunken-looking
groom, ill-kempt and side-whiskered, with an inflamed face and
tweed-suited and respectable, as of old. Putting his hands into his
pockets, he stretched out his legs in front of the fire and laughed
“Well, really!” he cried, and then he choked and laughed again until he
was obliged to lie back, limp and helpless, in the chair.
“I can’t imagine. I suppose that you have been watching the habits, and
character of a groom out of work. There is a wonderful sympathy and
freemasonry among horsey men. Be one of them, and you will know all
and those preposterous English window fasteners which a child could
could be reached from the top of the coach-house. I walked round it and
“I then lounged down the street and found, as I expected, that there
the ostlers a hand in rubbing down their horses, and received in
exchange twopence, a glass of half-and-half, two fills of shag tobacco,
and as much information as I could desire about Miss Adler, to say
out at five every day, and returns at seven sharp for dinner. Seldom
visitor, but a good deal of him. He is dark, handsome, and dashing,
never calls less than once a day, and often twice. He is a Mr. Godfrey
and knew all about him. When I had listened to all they had to tell, I
began to walk up and down near Briony Lodge once more, and to think
them, and what the object of his repeated visits? Was she his client,
gentleman’s chambers in the Temple. It was a delicate point, and it
to understand the situation.”
to Briony Lodge, and a gentleman sprang out. He was a remarkably
handsome man, dark, aquiline, and moustached—evidently the man of whom
to wait, and brushed past the maid who opened the door with the air of
“He was in the house about half an hour, and I could catch glimpses of
him in the windows of the sitting-room, pacing up and down, talking
excitedly, and waving his arms. Of her I could see nothing. Presently
the cab, he pulled a gold watch from his pocket and looked at it
Hankey’s in Regent Street, and then to the Church of St. Monica in the
“Away they went, and I was just wondering whether I should not do well
to follow them when up the lane came a neat little landau, the coachman
with his coat only half-buttoned, and his tie under his ear, while all
pulled up before she shot out of the hall door and into it. I only
“‘The Church of St. Monica, John,’ she cried, ‘and half a sovereign if
I should run for it, or whether I should perch behind her landau when a
Monica,’ said I, ‘and half a sovereign if you reach it in twenty
minutes.’ It was twenty-five minutes to twelve, and of course it was
were there before us. The cab and the landau with their steaming horses
were in front of the door when I arrived. I paid the man and hurried
followed and a surpliced clergyman, who seemed to be expostulating with
them. They were all three standing in a knot in front of the altar. I
me, and Godfrey Norton came running as hard as he could towards me.
“I was half-dragged up to the altar, and before I knew where I was I
found myself mumbling responses which were whispered in my ear, and
vouching for things of which I knew nothing, and generally assisting in
bachelor. It was all done in an instant, and there was the gentleman
thanking me on the one side and the lady on the other, while the
in which I ever found myself in my life, and it was the thought of it
to marry them without a witness of some sort, and that my lucky
streets in search of a best man. The bride gave me a sovereign, and I
“This is a very unexpected turn of affairs,” said I; “and what then?”
pair might take an immediate departure, and so necessitate very prompt
and energetic measures on my part. At the church door, however, they
separated, he driving back to the Temple, and she to her own house. ‘I
him. I heard no more. They drove away in different directions, and I
“Some cold beef and a glass of beer,” he answered, ringing the bell. “I
have been too busy to think of food, and I am likely to be busier still
landlady had provided, “I must discuss it while I eat, for I have not
come what may. You understand?”
“And when I raise my hand—so—you will throw into the room what I give
you to throw, and will, at the same time, raise the cry of fire. You
street, and I will rejoin you in ten minutes. I hope that I have made
“I am to remain neutral, to get near the window, to watch you, and at
the signal to throw in this object, then to raise the cry of fire, and
He disappeared into his bedroom and returned in a few minutes in the
character of an amiable and simple-minded Nonconformist clergyman. His
smile, and general look of peering and benevolent curiosity were such
It was a quarter past six when we left Baker Street, and it still
Avenue. It was already dusk, and the lamps were just being lighted as
we paced up and down in front of Briony Lodge, waiting for the coming
shabbily dressed men smoking and laughing in a corner, a
nurse-girl, and several well-dressed young men who were lounging up and
“You see,” remarked Holmes, as we paced to and fro in front of the
that the King is capable of having her waylaid and searched. Two
inclined to think neither. Women are naturally secretive, and they like
to do their own secreting. Why should she hand it over to anyone else?
a few days. It must be where she can lay her hands upon it. It must be
curve of the avenue. It was a smart little landau which rattled up to
the two guardsmen, who took sides with one of the loungers, and by the
struck, and in an instant the lady, who had stepped from her carriage,
was the centre of a little knot of flushed and struggling men, who
struck savagely at each other with their fists and sticks. Holmes
he gave a cry and dropped to the ground, with the blood running freely
direction and the loungers in the other, while a number of better
crowded in to help the lady and to attend to the injured man. Irene
purse and watch if it hadn’t been for him. They were a gang, and a
Slowly and solemnly he was borne into Briony Lodge and laid out in the
was conspiring, or the grace and kindliness with which she waited upon
my heart, and took the smoke-rocket from under my ulster. After all, I
Holmes had sat up upon the couch, and I saw him motion like a man who
is in need of air. A maid rushed across and threw open the window. At
the same instant I saw him raise his hand and at the signal I tossed my
of my mouth than the whole crowd of spectators, well dressed and
ill—gentlemen, ostlers, and servant maids—joined in a general shriek of
“Fire!” Thick clouds of smoke curled through the room and out at the
open window. I caught a glimpse of rushing figures, and a moment later
of the street, and in ten minutes was rejoiced to find my friend’s arm
in mine, and to get away from the scene of uproar. He walked swiftly
and in silence for some few minutes until we had turned down one of the
palm of my hand. I rushed forward, fell down, clapped my hand to my
face, and became a piteous spectacle. It is an old trick.”
suspected. It lay between that and her bedroom, and I was determined to
compelled to open the window, and you had your chance.”
is a perfectly overpowering impulse, and I have more than once taken
advantage of it. In the case of the Darlington Substitution Scandal it
was of use to me, and also in the Arnsworth Castle business. A married
secure it. The alarm of fire was admirably done. The smoke and shouting
bell-pull. She was there in an instant, and I caught a glimpse of it as
replaced it, glanced at the rocket, rushed from the room, and I have
not seen her since. I rose, and, making my excuses, escaped from the
but the coachman had come in, and as he was watching me narrowly, it
to-morrow, and with you, if you care to come with us. We will be shown
a satisfaction to his Majesty to regain it with his own hands.”
complete change in her life and habits. I must wire to the King without
We had reached Baker Street and had stopped at the door. He was
I slept at Baker Street that night, and we were engaged upon our toast
and coffee in the morning when the King of Bohemia rushed into the
shoulder and looking eagerly into his face.
“Then that will simplify matters.” We descended and started off once
the lady loves her husband, she does not love your Majesty. If she does
The door of Briony Lodge was open, and an elderly woman stood upon the
questioning and rather startled gaze.
this morning with her husband by the 5:15 train from Charing Cross for
“What!” Sherlock Holmes staggered back, white with chagrin and
surprise. “Do you mean that she has left England?”
“We shall see.” He pushed past the servant and rushed into the
drawing-room, followed by the King and myself. The furniture was
scattered about in every direction, with dismantled shelves and open
Holmes rushed at the bell-pull, tore back a small sliding shutter, and,
plunging in his hand, pulled out a photograph and a letter. The
friend tore it open, and we all three read it together. It was dated at
midnight of the preceding night and ran in this way:
    ran upstairs, got into my walking clothes, as I call them, and came
    “Well, I followed you to your door, and so made sure that I was
    Then I, rather imprudently, wished you good-night, and started for
    the Temple to see my husband.
    peace. I love and am loved by a better man than he. The King may do
    wronged. I keep it only to safeguard myself, and to preserve a
    possess; and I remain, dear Mr. Sherlock Holmes,
all three read this epistle. “Did I not tell you how quick and resolute
you. This ring—” He slipped an emerald snake ring from his finger and
held it out upon the palm of his hand.
I have the honour to wish you a very good morning.” He bowed, and,
turning away without observing the hand which the King had stretched
And that was how a great scandal threatened to affect the kingdom of
Bohemia, and how the best plans of Mr. Sherlock Holmes were beaten by a
 autumn of last year and found him in deep conversation with a very
 me abruptly into the room and closed the door behind me.
“Not at all. This gentleman, Mr. Wilson, has been my partner and helper
in many of my most successful cases, and I have no doubt that he will
The stout gentleman half rose from his chair and gave a bob of
“Try the settee,” said Holmes, relapsing into his armchair and putting
know, my dear Watson, that you share my love of all that is bizarre and
outside the conventions and humdrum routine of everyday life. You have
chronicle, and, if you will excuse my saying so, somewhat to embellish
into the very simple problem presented by Miss Mary Sutherland, that
for strange effects and extraordinary combinations we must go to life
reason breaks down under them and acknowledges me to be right. Now, Mr.
and to begin a narrative which promises to be one of the most singular
the strangest and most unique things are very often connected not with
the larger but with the smaller crimes, and occasionally, indeed, where
events, I am able to guide myself by the thousands of other similar
little pride and pulled a dirty and wrinkled newspaper from the inside
with his head thrust forward and the paper flattened out upon his knee,
I took a good look at the man and endeavoured, after the fashion of my
pompous, and slow. He wore rather baggy grey shepherd’s check trousers,
a not over-clean black frock-coat, unbuttoned in the front, and a drab
waistcoat with a heavy brassy Albert chain, and a square pierced bit of
metal dangling down as an ornament. A frayed top-hat and a faded brown
save his blazing red head, and the expression of extreme chagrin and
Sherlock Holmes’ quick eye took in my occupation, and he shook his head
that he is a Freemason, that he has been in China, and that he has done
“Your hands, my dear sir. Your right hand is quite a size larger than
your left. You have worked with it, and the muscles are more
“Well, the snuff, then, and the Freemasonry?”
an arc-and-compass breastpin.”
inches, and the left one with the smooth patch near the elbow where you
marks and have even contributed to the literature of the subject. That
explaining. ‘_Omne ignotum pro magnifico_,’ you know, and my poor
candid. Can you not find the advertisement, Mr. Wilson?”
I took the paper from him and read as follows:
body and mind and above the age of twenty-one years, are eligible.
Holmes chuckled and wriggled in his chair, as was his habit when in
“And now, Mr. Wilson, off you go at scratch and tell us all about
yourself, your household, and the effect which this advertisement had
and the date.”
and of late years it has not done more than just give me a living. I
used to be able to keep two assistants, but now I only keep one; and I
“His name is Vincent Spaulding, and he’s not such a youth, either. It’s
and I know very well that he could better himself and earn twice what I
improving his mind, and then diving down into the cellar like a rabbit
“Yes, sir. He and a girl of fourteen, who does a bit of simple cooking
and keeps the place clean—that’s all I have in the house, for I am a
widower and never had any family. We live very quietly, sir, the three
of us; and we keep a roof over our heads and pay our debts, if we do
paper in his hand, and he says:
it, and I understand that there are more vacancies than there are men,
stay-at-home man, and as my business came to me instead of my having to
and I was always glad of a bit of news.
“‘Oh, merely a couple of hundred a year, but the work is slight, and it
business has not been over good for some years, and an extra couple of
hundred would have been very handy.
yourself that the League has a vacancy, and there is the address where
peculiar in his ways. He was himself red-headed, and he had a great
had left his enormous fortune in the hands of trustees, with
and very little to do.’
confined to Londoners, and to grown men. This American had started from
London when he was young, and he wanted to do the old town a good turn.
hair is of a very full and rich tint, so that it seemed to me that if
him to put up the shutters for the day and to come right away with me.
He was very willing to have a holiday, so we shut the business up and
north, south, east, and west every man who had a shade of red in his
Street was choked with red-headed folk, and Pope’s Court looked like a
and pulled and butted until he got me through the crowd, and right up
the stair, some going up in hope, and some coming back dejected; but we
wedged in as well as we could and soon found ourselves in the office.”
his client paused and refreshed his memory with a huge pinch of snuff.
“There was nothing in the office but a couple of wooden chairs and a
redder than mine. He said a few words to each candidate as he came up,
and then he always managed to find some fault in them which would
more favourable to me than to any of the others, and he closed the door
“‘This is Mr. Jabez Wilson,’ said my assistant, ‘and he is willing to
took a step backward, cocked his head on one side, and gazed at my hair
hand, and congratulated me warmly on my success.
my hair in both his hands, and tugged until I yelled with the pain.
twice been deceived by wigs and once by paint. I could tell you tales
over to the window and shouted through it at the top of his voice that
and the folk all trooped away in different directions until there was
not a red-head to be seen except my own and that of the manager.
“‘My name,’ said he, ‘is Mr. Duncan Ross, and I am myself one of the
to hear you say that. The fund was, of course, for the propagation and
especially Thursday and Friday evening, which is just before pay-day;
Besides, I knew that my assistant was a good man, and that he would see
“‘It’s only four hours a day, and I should not think of leaving,’ said
volume of it in that press. You must find your own ink, pens, and
blotting-paper, but we provide this table and chair. Will you be ready
“‘Then, good-bye, Mr. Jabez Wilson, and let me congratulate you once
gain.’ He bowed me out of the room and I went home with my assistant,
“Well, I thought over the matter all day, and by evening I was in low
ink, and with a quill-pen, and seven sheets of foolscap paper, I
“Well, to my surprise and delight, everything was as right as possible.
The table was set out ready for me, and Mr. Duncan Ross was there to
see that I got fairly to work. He started me off upon the letter A, and
upon the amount that I had written, and locked the door of the office
“This went on day after day, Mr. Holmes, and on Saturday the manager
came in and planked down four golden sovereigns for my week’s work. It
was the same next week, and the same the week after. Every morning I
was there at ten, and every afternoon I left at two. By degrees Mr.
Duncan Ross took to coming in only once of a morning, and then, after a
and the billet was such a good one, and suited me so well, that I would
“Eight weeks passed away like this, and I had written about Abbots and
Archery and Armour and Architecture and Attica, and hoped with
something in foolscap, and I had pretty nearly filled a shelf with my
at ten o’clock, but the door was shut and locked, with a little square
it is, and you can read for yourself.”
Sherlock Holmes and I surveyed this curt announcement and the rueful
Finally, I went to the landlord, who is an accountant living on the
ground floor, and I asked him if he could tell me what had become of
“‘Oh,’ said he, ‘his name was William Morris. He was a solicitor and
manufactory of artificial knee-caps, and no one in it had ever heard of
“I went home to Saxe-Coburg Square, and I took the advice of my
remarkable one, and I shall be happy to look into it. From what you
the contrary, you are, as I understand, richer by some £ 30, to say
“No, sir. But I want to find out about them, and who they are, and what
was a pretty expensive joke for them, for it cost them two and thirty
“Because he was handy and would come cheap.”
the subject in the course of a day or two. To-day is Saturday, and I
“To smoke,” he answered. “It is quite a three pipe problem, and I beg
his chair, with his thin knees drawn up to his hawk-like nose, and
there he sat with his eyes closed and his black clay pipe thrusting out
he had dropped asleep, and indeed was nodding myself, when he suddenly
mind and put his pipe down upon the mantelpiece.
“Then put on your hat and come. I am going through the City first, and
Italian or French. It is introspective, and I want to introspect. Come
We travelled by the Underground as far as Aldersgate; and a short walk
into a small railed-in enclosure, where a lawn of weedy grass and a few
and uncongenial atmosphere. Three gilt balls and a brown board with
Holmes stopped in front of it with his head on one side and looked it
walked slowly up the street, and then down again to the corner, still
and, having thumped vigorously upon the pavement with his stick two or
three times, he went up to the door and knocked. It was instantly
from here to the Strand.”
judgment, the fourth smartest man in London, and for daring I am not
arteries which conveyed the traffic of the City to the north and west.
a double tide inward and outward, while the footpaths were black with
looked at the line of fine shops and stately business premises that
they really abutted on the other side upon the faded and stagnant
“Let me see,” said Holmes, standing at the corner and glancing along
branch of the City and Suburban Bank, the Vegetarian Restaurant, and
some play. A sandwich and a cup of coffee, and then off to violin-land,
where all is sweetness and delicacy and harmony, and there are no
gently smiling face and his languid, dreamy eyes were as unlike those
ready-handed criminal agent, as it was possible to conceive. In his
singular character the dual nature alternately asserted itself, and his
extreme exactness and astuteness represented, as I have often thought,
the reaction against the poetic and contemplative mood which
extreme languor to devouring energy; and, as I knew well, he was never
his armchair amid his improvisations and his black-letter editions.
and that his brilliant reasoning power would rise to the level of
kindly put your army revolver in your pocket.” He waved his hand,
turned on his heel, and disappeared in an instant among the crowd.
seen, and yet from his words it was evident that he saw clearly not
whole business was still confused and grotesque. As I drove home to my
Saxe-Coburg Square, and the ominous words with which he had parted from
me. What was this nocturnal expedition, and why should I go armed?
Where were we going, and what were we to do? I had the hint from Holmes
up in despair and set the matter aside until night should bring an
It was a quarter-past nine when I started from home and made my way
across the Park, and so through Oxford Street to Baker Street. Two
hansoms were standing at the door, and as I entered the passage I heard
sad-faced man, with a very shiny hat and oppressively respectable
and taking his heavy hunting crop from the rack. “Watson, I think you
know Mr. Jones, of Scotland Yard? Let me introduce you to Mr.
won’t mind my saying so, just a little too theoretical and fantastic,
that once or twice, as in that business of the Sholto murder and the
Saturday night for seven-and-twenty years that I have not had my
a higher stake to-night than you have ever done yet, and that the play
some £ 30,000; and for you, Jones, it will be the man upon whom you
wish to lay your hands.”
“John Clay, the murderer, thief, smasher, and forger. He’s a young man,
Mr. Merryweather, but he is at the head of his profession, and I would
remarkable man, is young John Clay. His grandfather was a royal duke,
and he himself has been to Eton and Oxford. His brain is as cunning as
his fingers, and though we meet signs of him at every turn, we never
know where to find the man himself. He’ll crack a crib in Scotland one
week, and be raising money to build an orphanage in Cornwall the next.
I’ve been on his track for years and have never set eyes on him yet.”
had one or two little turns also with Mr. John Clay, and I agree with
and quite time that we started. If you two will take the first hansom,
Watson and I will follow in the second.”
Sherlock Holmes was not very communicative during the long drive and
is a bank director, and personally interested in the matter. I thought
is as brave as a bulldog and as tenacious as a lobster if he gets his
claws upon anyone. Here we are, and they are waiting for us.”
ourselves in the morning. Our cabs were dismissed, and, following the
guidance of Mr. Merryweather, we passed down a narrow passage and
opened, and led down a flight of winding stone steps, which terminated
lantern, and then conducted us down a dark, earth-smelling passage, and
piled all round with crates and massive boxes.
the lantern and gazed about him.
upon one of those boxes, and not to interfere?”
the floor and, with the lantern and a magnifying lens, began to examine
satisfy him, for he sprang to his feet again and put his glass in his
and he will explain to you that there are reasons why the more daring
“Yes. We had occasion some months ago to strengthen our resources and
and that it is still lying in our cellar. The crate upon which I sit
single branch office, and the directors have had misgivings upon the
“I am afraid so. I had brought a pack of cards in my pocket, and I
choose our positions. These are daring men, and though we shall take
I shall stand behind this crate, and do you conceal yourselves behind
and left us in pitch darkness—such an absolute darkness as I have never
something depressing and subduing in the sudden gloom, and in the cold
“I have an inspector and two officers waiting at the front door.”
“Then we have stopped all the holes. And now we must be silent and
hour and a quarter, yet it appeared to me that the night must have
almost gone, and the dawn be breaking above us. My limbs were weary and
to the highest pitch of tension, and my hearing was so acute that I
lengthened out until it became a yellow line, and then, without any
warning or sound, a gash seemed to open and a hand appeared, a white,
almost womanly hand, which felt about in the centre of the little area
of light. For a minute or more the hand, with its writhing fingers,
appeared, and all was dark again save the single lurid spark which
sound, one of the broad, white stones turned over upon its side and
looked keenly about it, and then, with a hand on either side of the
aperture, drew itself shoulder-high and waist-high, until one knee
hole and was hauling after him a companion, lithe and small like
himself, with a pale face and a shock of very red hair.
“It’s all clear,” he whispered. “Have you the chisel and the bags?
Great Scott! Jump, Archie, jump, and I’ll swing for it!”
Sherlock Holmes had sprung out and seized the intruder by the collar.
The other dived down the hole, and I heard the sound of rending cloth
revolver, but Holmes’ hunting crop came down on the man’s wrist, and
“It’s no use, John Clay,” said Holmes blandly. “You have no chance at
“And I you,” Holmes answered. “Your red-headed idea was very new and
“I beg that you will not touch me with your filthy hands,” remarked our
prisoner as the handcuffs clattered upon his wrists. “You may not be
when you address me always to say ‘sir’ and ‘please.’”
“All right,” said Jones with a stare and a snigger. “Well, would you
the three of us and walked quietly off in the custody of the detective.
There is no doubt that you have detected and defeated in the most
and by hearing the very remarkable narrative of the Red-headed League.”
sat over a glass of whisky and soda in Baker Street, “it was perfectly
fantastic business of the advertisement of the League, and the copying
draw him, and what was it to them, who were playing for thousands? They
rogue incites the man to apply for it, and together they manage to
business was a small one, and there was nothing in his house which
could account for such elaborate preparations, and such an expenditure
could it be? I thought of the assistant’s fondness for photography, and
assistant and found that I had to deal with one of the coolest and most
was not in front. Then I rang the bell, and, as I hoped, the assistant
wrinkled, and stained they were. They spoke of those hours of
walked round the corner, saw the City and Suburban Bank abutted on our
friend’s premises, and felt that I had solved my problem. When you
drove home after the concert I called upon Scotland Yard and upon the
“It is so long a chain, and yet every link rings true.”
as Gustave Flaubert wrote to George Sand.”
we could fly out of that window hand in hand, hover over this great
city, gently remove the roofs, and peep in at the queer things which
generations, and leading to the most _outré_ results, it would make all
fiction with its conventionalities and foreseen conclusions most stale
and unprofitable.”
to light in the papers are, as a rule, bald enough, and vulgar enough.
We have in our police reports realism pushed to its extreme limits, and
“A certain selection and discretion must be used in producing a
I smiled and shook my head. “I can quite understand your thinking so,”
I said. “Of course, in your position of unofficial adviser and helper
you are brought in contact with all that is strange and bizarre. But
husband’s cruelty to his wife.’ There is half a column of print, but I
bruise, the sympathetic sister or landlady. The crudest of writers
Holmes, taking the paper and glancing his eye down it. “This is the
Dundas separation case, and, as it happens, I was engaged in clearing
up some small points in connection with it. The husband was a
teetotaler, there was no other woman, and the conduct complained of was
out his false teeth and hurling them at his wife, which, you will
average story-teller. Take a pinch of snuff, Doctor, and acknowledge
ways and simple life that I could not help commenting upon it.
“It was from the reigning family of Holland, though the matter in which
“And have you any on hand just now?” I asked with interest.
They are important, you understand, without being interesting. Indeed,
field for the observation, and for the quick analysis of cause and
He had risen from his chair and was standing between the parted blinds
woman with a heavy fur boa round her neck, and a large curling red
body oscillated backward and forward, and her fingers fidgeted with her
the bank, she hurried across the road, and we heard the sharp clang of
longer oscillates, and the usual symptom is a broken bell wire. Here we
As he spoke there was a tap at the door, and the boy in buttons entered
to announce Miss Mary Sutherland, while the lady herself loomed behind
which he was remarkable, and, having closed the door and bowed her into
an armchair, he looked her over in the minute and yet abstracted
words, she gave a violent start and looked up, with fear and
husband you found so easy when the police and everyone had given him up
little that I make by the machine, and I would give it all to know what
Holmes, with his finger-tips together and his eyes to the ceiling.
Sutherland. “Yes, I did bang out of the house,” she said, “for it made
father—took it all. He would not go to the police, and he would not go
to you, and so at last, as he would do nothing and kept on saying that
there was no harm done, it made me mad, and I just on with my things
and came right away to you.”
for he is only five years and two months older than myself.”
“Oh, yes, mother is alive and well. I wasn’t best pleased, Mr. Holmes,
when she married again so soon after father’s death, and a man who was
Tottenham Court Road, and he left a tidy business behind him, which
traveller in wines. They got £ 4700 for the goodwill and interest,
I had expected to see Sherlock Holmes impatient under this rambling and
“Oh, no, sir. It is quite separate and was left me by my uncle Ned in
Auckland. It is in New Zealand stock, paying 4½ per cent. Two thousand
doubt travel a little and indulge yourself in every way. I believe that
“I could do with much less than that, Mr. Holmes, but you understand
that as long as I live at home I don’t wish to be a burden to them, and
every quarter and pays it over to mother, and I find that I can do
sheet, and I can often do from fifteen to twenty sheets in a day.”
A flush stole over Miss Sutherland’s face, and she picked nervously at
she said. “They used to send father tickets when he was alive, and then
afterwards they remembered us, and sent them to mother. Mr. Windibank
this time I was set on going, and I would go; for what right had he to
France upon the business of the firm, but we went, mother and I, with
Mr. Hardy, who used to be our foreman, and it was there I met Mr.
“Oh, well, he was very good about it. He laughed, I remember, and
shrugged his shoulders, and said there was no use denying anything to a
“I see. Then at the gasfitters’ ball you met, as I understand, a
“Yes, sir. I met him that night, and he called next day to ask if we
had got home all safe, and after that we met him—that is to say, Mr.
again, and Mr. Hosmer Angel could not come to the house any more.”
have any visitors if he could help it, and he used to say that a woman
mother, a woman wants her own circle to begin with, and I had not got
“Well, father was going off to France again in a week, and Hosmer wrote
and said that it would be safer and better not to see each other until
he had gone. We could write in the meantime, and he used to write every
Street—and—”
will just show you how fond he was of me, Mr. Holmes, and the little
conspicuous. Very retiring and gentlemanly he was. Even his voice was
gentle. He’d had the quinsy and swollen glands when he was young, he
told me, and it had left him with a weak throat, and a hesitating,
whispering fashion of speech. He was always well dressed, very neat and
plain, but his eyes were weak, just as mine are, and he wore tinted
“Well, and what happened when Mr. Windibank, your stepfather, returned
“Mr. Hosmer Angel came to the house again and proposed that we should
marry before father came back. He was in dreadful earnest and made me
swear, with my hands on the Testament, that whatever happened I would
and that it was a sign of his passion. Mother was all in his favour
from the first and was even fonder of him than I was. Then, when they
afterwards, and mother said she would make it all right with him. I
“Yes, sir; for he had started to England just before it arrived.”
Cross, and we were to have breakfast afterwards at the St. Pancras
put us both into it and stepped himself into a four-wheeler, which
first, and when the four-wheeler drove up we waited for him to step
out, but he never did, and when the cabman got down from the box and
eyes. That was last Friday, Mr. Holmes, and I have never seen or heard
“Oh, no, sir! He was too good and kind to leave me so. Why, all the
and that even if something quite unforeseen occurred to separate us, I
was always to remember that I was pledged to him, and that he would
“She was angry, and said that I was never to speak of the matter
“Yes; and he seemed to think, with me, that something had happened, and
anyone have in bringing me to the doors of the church, and then leaving
me? Now, if he had borrowed my money, or if he had married me and got
very independent about money and never would look at a shilling of
Oh, it drives me half-mad to think of it, and I can’t sleep a wink at
night.” She pulled a little handkerchief out of her muff and began to
“I shall glance into the case for you,” said Holmes, rising, “and I
of the matter rest upon me now, and do not let your mind dwell upon it
“You will leave that question in my hands. I should like an accurate
description of him and any letters of his which you can spare.”
is the slip and here are four letters from him.”
“Mr. Angel’s address you never had, I understand. Where is your
the papers here, and remember the advice which I have given you. Let
the whole incident be a sealed book, and do not allow it to affect your
For all the preposterous hat and the vacuous face, there was something
She laid her little bundle of papers upon the table and went her way,
pressed together, his legs stretched out in front of him, and his gaze
and oily clay pipe, which was to him as a counsellor, and, having lit
spinning up from him, and a look of infinite languor in his face.
Andover in ’77, and there was something of the sort at The Hague last
and so you missed all that was important. I can never bring you to
upon it, and a fringe of little black jet ornaments. Her dress was
the neck and sleeves. Her gloves were greyish and were worn through at
hanging gold earrings, and a general air of being fairly well-to-do in
Sherlock Holmes clapped his hands softly together and chuckled.
everything of importance, but you have hit upon the method, and you
the table, was beautifully defined. The sewing-machine, of the hand
type, leaves a similar mark, but only on the left arm, and on the side
broadest part, as this was. I then glanced at her face, and, observing
upon short sight and typewriting, which seemed to surprise her.”
“But, surely, it was obvious. I was then much surprised and interested
having a slightly decorated toe-cap, and the other a plain one. One was
buttoned only in the two lower buttons out of five, and the other at
the first, third, and fifth. Now, when you see that a young lady,
and finger were stained with violet ink. She had written in a hurry and
hair, a little bald in the centre, bushy, black side-whiskers and
gold Albert chain, and grey Harris tweed trousers, with brown gaiters
reasoning and extraordinary energy in action that I felt that he must
have some solid grounds for the assured and easy demeanour with which
Bohemia and of the Irene Adler photograph; but when I looked back to
the weird business of the Sign of Four, and the extraordinary
he held in his hands all the clues which would lead up to the identity
of the disappearing bridegroom of Miss Mary Sutherland.
the time, and the whole of next day I was busy at the bedside of the
free and was able to spring into a hansom and drive to Baker Street,
armchair. A formidable array of bottles and test-tubes, with the
“Who was he, then, and what was his object in deserting Miss
Sutherland?”
The question was hardly out of my mouth, and Holmes had not yet opened
his lips to reply, when we heard a heavy footfall in the passage and a
years of age, clean-shaven, and sallow-skinned, with a bland,
insinuating manner, and a pair of wonderfully sharp and penetrating
top-hat upon the sideboard, and with a slight bow sidled down into the
own master, you know. I am sorry that Miss Sutherland has troubled you
noticed, and she is not easily controlled when she has made up her mind
Mr. Windibank gave a violent start and dropped his gloves. “I am
quite as much individuality as a man’s handwriting. Unless they are
worn than others, and some wear only on one side. Now, you remark in
little slurring over of the ‘e,’ and a slight defect in the tail of the
“We do all our correspondence with this machine at the office, and no
monograph some of these days on the typewriter and its relation to
are all typewritten. In each case, not only are the ‘e’s’ slurred and
Mr. Windibank sprang out of his chair and picked up his hat. “I cannot
you can catch the man, catch him, and let me know when you have done
“Certainly,” said Holmes, stepping over and turning the key in the
“What! where?” shouted Mr. Windibank, turning white to his lips and
and it was a very bad compliment when you said that it was impossible
for me to solve so simple a question. That’s right! Sit down and let us
Our visitor collapsed into a chair, with a ghastly face and a glitter
Windibank, it was as cruel and selfish and heartless a trick in a petty
events, and you will contradict me if I go wrong.”
the corner of the mantelpiece and, leaning back with his hands in his
said he, “and he enjoyed the use of the money of the daughter as long
position, and the loss of it would have made a serious difference. It
disposition, but affectionate and warm-hearted in her ways, so that it
was evident that with her fair personal advantages, and her little
keeping her at home and forbidding her to seek the company of people of
became restive, insisted upon her rights, and finally announced her
than to his heart. With the connivance and assistance of his wife he
the face with a moustache and a pair of bushy whiskers, sunk that clear
voice into an insinuating whisper, and doubly secure on account of the
girl’s short sight, he appears as Mr. Hosmer Angel, and keeps off other
decidedly carried away, and, having quite made up her mind that her
attentions, and the effect was increased by the loudly expressed
real effect were to be produced. There were meetings, and an
young lady’s mind and prevent her from looking upon any other suitor
Testament, and hence also the allusions to a possibility of something
Miss Sutherland to be so bound to Hosmer Angel, and so uncertain as to
to another man. As far as the church door he brought her, and then, as
of stepping in at one door of a four-wheeler and out at the other. I
been talking, and he rose from his chair now with a cold sneer upon his
breaking the law now, and not me. I have done nothing actionable from
open to an action for assault and illegal constraint.”
“The law cannot, as you say, touch you,” said Holmes, unlocking and
part of my duties to my client, but here’s a hunting crop handy, and I
upon the stairs, the heavy hall door banged, and from the window we
crime to crime until he does something very bad, and ends on a gallows.
Angel must have some strong object for his curious conduct, and it was
was away, was suggestive. So were the tinted spectacles and the curious
signature, which, of course, inferred that his handwriting was so
of a disguise—the whiskers, the glasses, the voice, and I sent it to
the peculiarities of the typewriter, and I wrote to the man himself at
his reply was typewritten and revealed the same trivial but
“And Miss Sutherland?”
Persian saying, ‘There is danger for him who taketh the tiger cub, and
much sense in Hafiz as in Horace, and as much knowledge of the world.”
We were seated at breakfast one morning, my wife and I, when the maid
brought in a telegram. It was from Sherlock Holmes and ran in this way:
west of England in connection with Boscombe Valley tragedy. Shall be
glad if you will come with me. Air and scenery perfect. Leave
little pale lately. I think that the change would do you good, and you
of making me a prompt and ready traveller. My wants were few and
up and down the platform, his tall, gaunt figure made even gaunter and
taller by his long grey travelling-cloak and close-fitting cloth cap.
which Holmes had brought with him. Among these he rummaged and read,
with intervals of note-taking and of meditation, until we were past
Reading. Then he suddenly rolled them all into a gigantic ball and
The more featureless and commonplace a crime is, the more difficult it
understand it, in a very few words.
Herefordshire. The largest landed proprietor in that part is a Mr. John
Turner, who made his money in Australia and returned some years ago to
and Turner had an only daughter of the same age, but neither of them
neighbouring English families and to have led retired lives, though
both the McCarthys were fond of sport and were frequently seen at the
and a girl. Turner had a considerable household, some half-dozen at the
Hatherley about three in the afternoon and walked down to the Boscombe
serving-man in the morning at Ross, and he had told the man that he
and two people saw him as he passed over this ground. One was an old
woman, whose name is not mentioned, and the other was William Crowder,
best of his belief, the father was actually in sight at the time, and
round, with just a fringe of grass and of reeds round the edge. A girl
and close by the lake, Mr. McCarthy and his son, and that they appeared
very strong language to his son, and she saw the latter raise up his
hand as if to strike his father. She was so frightened by their
violence that she ran away and told her mother when she reached home
that she had left the two McCarthys quarrelling near Boscombe Pool, and
that he had found his father dead in the wood, and to ask for the help
hat, and his right hand and sleeve were observed to be stained with
blows of some heavy and blunt weapon. The injuries were such as might
these circumstances the young man was instantly arrested, and a verdict
case as they came out before the coroner and the police-court.”
against the young man, and it is very possible that he is indeed the
culprit. There are several people in the neighbourhood, however, and
among them Miss Turner, the daughter of the neighbouring landowner, who
believe in his innocence, and who have retained Lestrade, whom you may
to me, and hence it is that two middle-aged gentlemen are flying
employing, or even of understanding. To take the first example to hand,
right-hand side, and yet I question whether Mr. Lestrade would have
characterises you. You shave every morning, and in this season you
shave by the sunlight; but since your shaving is less and less complete
a man of your habits looking at himself in an equal light and being
observation and inference. Therein lies my _métier_, and it is just
the inquest, and which are worth considering.”
hear it, and that it was no more than his deserts. This observation of
under the circumstances, and yet might appear to be the best policy to
and firmness. As to his remark about his deserts, it was also not
father, and that there is no doubt that he had that very day so far
forgotten his filial duty as to bandy words with him, and even,
his hand as if to strike him. The self-reproach and contrition which
it here, and may read it for yourself.”
and having turned down the sheet he pointed out the paragraph in which
occurred. I settled myself down in the corner of the carriage and read
“Mr. James McCarthy, the only son of the deceased, was then called and
Bristol, and had only just returned upon the morning of last Monday,
the 3rd. My father was absent from home at the time of my arrival, and
in the yard, and, looking out of my window, I saw him get out and walk
was going. I then took my gun and strolled out in the direction of the
“Cooee!” which was a usual signal between my father and myself. I then
hurried forward, and found him standing by the pool. He appeared to be
much surprised at seeing me and asked me rather roughly what I was
doing there. A conversation ensued which led to high words and almost
his passion was becoming ungovernable, I left him and returned towards
injured. I dropped my gun and held him in my arms, but he almost
instantly expired. I knelt beside him for some minutes, and then made
ask for assistance. I saw no one near my father when I returned, and I
being somewhat cold and forbidding in his manners, but he had, as far
“The Coroner: What did you understand by that?
“The Coroner: What was the point upon which you and your father had
“The Coroner: I understand that the cry of ‘Cooee’ was a common signal
between you and your father?
and before he even knew that you had returned from Bristol?
returned on hearing the cry and found your father fatally injured?
“Witness: I was so disturbed and excited as I rushed out into the open,
attention, and with reason, to the discrepancy about his father having
of his conversation with his father, and his singular account of his
Holmes laughed softly to himself and stretched himself out upon the
cushioned seat. “Both you and the coroner have been at some pains,”
too much imagination and too little? Too little, if he could not invent
_outré_ as a dying reference to a rat, and the incident of the
view that what this young man says is true, and we shall see whither
that hypothesis will lead us. And now here is my pocket Petrarch, and
action. We lunch at Swindon, and I see that we shall be there in twenty
beautiful Stroud Valley, and over the broad gleaming Severn, found
ferret-like man, furtive and sly-looking, was waiting for us upon the
platform. In spite of the light brown dustcoat and leather-leggings
difficulty in recognising Lestrade, of Scotland Yard. With him we drove
“I knew your energetic nature, and that you would not be happy until
“It was very nice and complimentary of you,” Holmes answered. “It is
“How is the glass? Twenty-nine, I see. No wind, and not a cloud in the
sky. I have a caseful of cigarettes here which need smoking, and the
pikestaff, and the more one goes into it the plainer it becomes. Still,
of course, one can’t refuse a lady, and such a very positive one, too.
She has heard of you, and would have your opinion, though I repeatedly
her natural reserve lost in her overpowering excitement and concern.
us, and finally, with a woman’s quick intuition, fastening upon my
you so. I know that James didn’t do it. I know it, and I want you to
that point. We have known each other since we were little children, and
“There, now!” she cried, throwing back her head and looking defiantly
“It is no time for me to hide anything. James and his father had many
be a marriage between us. James and I have always loved each other as
brother and sister; but of course he is young and has seen very little
of life yet, and—and—well, he naturally did not wish to do anything
like that yet. So there were quarrels, and this, I am sure, was one of
and Dr. Willows says that he is a wreck and that his nervous system is
“Quite so; at the gold-mines, where, as I understand, Mr. Turner made
“I must go home now, for dad is very ill, and he misses me so if I
leave him. Good-bye, and God help you in your undertaking.” She hurried
from the room as impulsively as she had entered, and we heard the
“Yes, but only for you and me.”
time to take a train to Hereford and see him to-night?”
I walked down to the station with them, and then wandered through the
upon the sofa and tried to interest myself in a yellow-backed novel.
deep mystery through which we were groping, and I found my attention
wander so continually from the action to the fact, that I at last flung
it across the room and gave myself up entirely to a consideration of
unforeseen and extraordinary calamity could have occurred between the
time when he parted from his father, and the moment when, drawn back by
his screams, he rushed into the glade? It was something terrible and
something to my medical instincts? I rang the bell and called for the
the left parietal bone and the left half of the occipital bone had been
overcoat, in his flight, and must have had the hardihood to return and
turned not a dozen paces off. What a tissue of mysteries and
opinion, and yet I had so much faith in Sherlock Holmes’ insight that I
ground. On the other hand, a man should be at his very best and keenest
for such nice work as that, and I did not wish to do it when fagged by
done it and was screening him or her, but I am convinced now that he is
though comely to look at and, I should think, sound at heart.”
lad, and before he really knew her, for she had been away five years at
a barmaid in Bristol and marry her at a registry office? No one knows a
this sort which made him throw his hands up into the air when his
Turner. On the other hand, he had no means of supporting himself, and
that he had spent the last three days in Bristol, and his father did
that he is in serious trouble and likely to be hanged, has thrown him
over utterly and has written to him to say that she has a husband
pool, and that the someone could not have been his son, for his son was
away, and he did not know when he would return. The second is that the
now let us talk about George Meredith, if you please, and we shall
There was no rain, as Holmes had foretold, and the morning broke bright
and cloudless. At nine o’clock Lestrade called for us with the
carriage, and we set off for Hatherley Farm and the Boscombe Pool.
abroad, and he has been in failing health for some time. This business
and, I may add, a great benefactor to him, for I have learned that he
McCarthy, who appears to have had little of his own, and to have been
to Turner’s daughter, who is, presumably, heiress to the estate, and
proposal and all else would follow? It is the more strange, since we
“We have got to the deductions and the inferences,” said Lestrade,
flying away after theories and fancies.”
“That McCarthy senior met his death from McCarthy junior and that all
the grey walls. The drawn blinds and the smokeless chimneys, however,
death, and also a pair of the son’s, though not the pair which he had
this. Men who had only known the quiet thinker and logician of Baker
Street would have failed to recognise him. His face flushed and
bent downward, his shoulders bowed, his lips compressed, and the veins
to dilate with a purely animal lust for the chase, and his mind was so
quick, impatient snarl in reply. Swiftly and silently he made his way
along the track which ran through the meadows, and so by way of the
district, and there were marks of many feet, both upon the path and
would hurry on, sometimes stop dead, and once he made quite a little
detour into the meadow. Lestrade and I walked behind him, the detective
indifferent and contemptuous, while I watched my friend with the
Farm and the private park of the wealthy Mr. Turner. Above the woods
pinnacles which marked the site of the rich landowner’s dwelling. On
the Hatherley side of the pool the woods grew very thick, and there was
the trees and the reeds which lined the lake. Lestrade showed us the
exact spot at which the body had been found, and, indeed, so moist was
face and peering eyes, very many other things were to be read upon the
trampled grass. He ran round, like a dog who is picking up a scent, and
twist is all over the place. A mole could trace it, and there it
been here before they came like a herd of buffalo and wallowed all over
it. Here is where the party with the lodge-keeper came, and they have
three separate tracks of the same feet.” He drew out a lens and lay
he was walking, and once he ran swiftly, so that the soles are deeply
marked and the heels hardly visible. That bears out his story. He ran
as he paced up and down. What is this, then? It is the butt-end of the
come from?” He ran up and down, sometimes losing, sometimes finding the
track until we were well within the edge of the wood and under the
traced his way to the farther side of this and lay down once more upon
there, turning over the leaves and dried sticks, gathering up what
seemed to me to be dust into an envelope and examining with his lens
reach. A jagged stone was lying among the moss, and this also he
carefully examined and retained. Then he followed a pathway through the
be the lodge. I think that I will go in and have a word with Moran, and
luncheon. You may walk to the cab, and I shall be with you presently.”
It was about ten minutes before we regained our cab and drove back into
“Is a tall man, left-handed, limps with the right leg, wears
thick-soled shooting-boots and a grey cloak, smokes Indian cigars, uses
a cigar-holder, and carries a blunt pen-knife in his pocket. There are
and I shall work mine. I shall be busy this afternoon, and shall
Lestrade shrugged his shoulders. “I am a practical man,” he said, “and
left-handed gentleman with a game leg. I should become the
laughing-stock of Scotland Yard.”
found lunch upon the table. Holmes was silent and buried in thought
in this chair and let me preach to you for a little. I don’t know quite
what to do, and I should value your advice. Light a cigar and let me
impressed me in his favour and you against him. One was the fact that
several words, you understand, but that was all that caught the son’s
ear. Now from this double point our research must commence, and we will
Australian cry, and one which is used between Australians. There is a
Sherlock Holmes took a folded paper from his pocket and flattened it
“I wired to Bristol for it last night.” He put his hand over part of
“And now?” He raised his hand.
“Quite so. That was the word the man uttered, and of which his son only
murderer. So and so, of Ballarat.”
wander.”
“But his left-handedness.”
behind, and yet was upon the left side. Now, how can that be unless it
were by a left-handed man? He had stood behind that tree during the
interview between the father and son. He had even smoked there. I found
attention to this, and written a little monograph on the ashes of 140
different varieties of pipe, cigar, and cigarette tobacco. Having found
the ash, I then looked round and discovered the stump among the moss
cannot escape, and you have saved an innocent human life as truly as if
sitting-room, and ushering in a visitor.
The man who entered was a strange and impressive figure. His slow,
limping step and bowed shoulders gave the appearance of decrepitude,
and yet his hard, deep-lined, craggy features, and his enormous limbs
showed that he was possessed of unusual strength of body and of
character. His tangled beard, grizzled hair, and outstanding, drooping
eyebrows combined to give an air of dignity and power to his
appearance, but his face was of an ashen white, while his lips and the
to me at a glance that he was in the grip of some deadly and chronic
me here to avoid scandal.”
The old man sank his face in his hands. “God help me!” he cried. “But I
“I am no official agent. I understand that it was your daughter who
required my presence here, and I am acting in her interests. Young
Holmes rose and sat down at the table with his pen in his hand and a
jot down the facts. You will sign it, and Watson here can witness it.
His grip has been upon me these twenty years, and he has blasted my
hot-blooded and reckless, ready to turn my hand at anything; I got
the bush, and in a word became what you would call over here a highway
robber. There were six of us, and we had a wild, free life of it,
and our party is still remembered in the colony as the Ballarat Gang.
“One day a gold convoy came down from Ballarat to Melbourne, and we lay
in wait for it and attacked it. There were six troopers and six of us,
wealthy men, and made our way over to England without being suspected.
There I parted from my old pals and determined to settle down to a
quiet and respectable life. I bought this estate, which chanced to be
in the market, and I set myself to do a little good with my money, to
make up for the way in which I had earned it. I married, too, and
she was just a baby her wee hand seemed to lead me down the right path
as nothing else had ever done. In a word, I turned over a new leaf and
“I had gone up to town about an investment, and I met him in Regent
good as a family to you. There’s two of us, me and my son, and you can
is England, and there’s always a policeman within hail.’
off, and there they have lived rent free on my best land ever since.
past than of the police. Whatever he wanted he must have, and whatever
it was I gave him without question, land, money, houses, until at last
“His son, you see, had grown up, and so had my girl, and as I was known
the lad, but his blood was in him, and that was enough. I stood firm.
cigar and waited behind a tree until he should be alone. But as I
listened to his talk all that was black and bitter in me seemed to come
streets. It drove me mad to think that I and all that I held most dear
bond? I was already a dying and a desperate man. Though clear of mind
and fairly strong of limb, I knew that my own fate was sealed. But my
memory and my girl! Both could be saved if I could but silence that
he had been some foul and venomous beast. His cry brought back his son;
will keep your confession, and if McCarthy is condemned I shall be
forced to use it. If not, it shall never be seen by mortal eye; and
have given to mine.” Tottering and shaking in all his giant frame, he
this that I do not think of Baxter’s words, and say, ‘There, but for
of objections which had been drawn out by Holmes and submitted to the
interview, but he is now dead; and there is every prospect that the son
and daughter may come to live happily together in ignorance of the
When I glance over my notes and records of the Sherlock Holmes cases
between the years ’82 and ’90, I am faced by so many which present
strange and interesting features that it is no easy matter to know
which to choose and which to leave. Some, however, have already gained
publicity through the papers, and others have not offered a field for
and which it is the object of these papers to illustrate. Some, too,
have baffled his analytical skill, and would be, as narratives,
cleared up, and have their explanations founded rather upon conjecture
and surmise than on that absolute logical proof which was so dear to
its details and so startling in its results that I am tempted to give
connection with it which never have been, and probably never will be,
singular adventures of the Grice Patersons in the island of Uffa, and
watch, to prove that it had been wound up two hours before, and that
It was in the latter days of September, and the equinoctial gales had
set in with exceptional violence. All day the wind had screamed and the
great, hand-made London we were forced to raise our minds for the
instant from the routine of life and to recognise the presence of those
storm grew higher and louder, and the wind cried and sobbed like a
gale from without seemed to blend with the text, and the splash of the
on a visit to her mother’s, and for a few days I was a dweller once
such a day and at such an hour. But I take it that it is more likely to
be some crony of the landlady’s.”
step in the passage and a tapping at the door. He stretched out his
long arm to turn the lamp away from himself and towards the vacant
The man who entered was young, some two-and-twenty at the outside,
well-groomed and trimly clad, with something of refinement and delicacy
in his bearing. The streaming umbrella which he held in his hand, and
had come. He looked about him anxiously in the glare of the lamp, and I
could see that his face was pale and his eyes heavy, like those of a
traces of the storm and rain into your snug chamber.”
“Give me your coat and umbrella,” said Holmes. “They may rest here on
the hook and will be dry presently. You have come up from the
“That clay and chalk mixture which I see upon your toe caps is quite
you saved him in the Tankerville Club scandal.”
“I have been beaten four times—three times by men, and once by a
“I beg that you will draw your chair up to the fire and favour me with
ever listened to a more mysterious and inexplicable chain of events
facts from the commencement, and I can afterwards question you as to
The young man pulled his chair up and pushed his wet feet out towards
as I can understand, little to do with this awful business. It is a
“You must know that my grandfather had two sons—my uncle Elias and my
of the Openshaw unbreakable tire, and his business met with such
success that he was able to sell it and to retire upon a handsome
“My uncle Elias emigrated to America when he was a young man and became
the time of the war he fought in Jackson’s army, and afterwards under
years. About 1869 or 1870 he came back to Europe and took a small
in the States, and his reason for leaving them was his aversion to the
negroes, and his dislike of the Republican policy in extending the
franchise to them. He was a singular man, fierce and quick-tempered,
very foul-mouthed when he was angry, and of a most retiring
ever he set foot in the town. He had a garden and two or three fields
round his house, and there he would take his exercise, though very
deal of brandy and smoked very heavily, but he would see no society and
in the year 1878, after he had been eight or nine years in England. He
begged my father to let me live with him and he was very kind to me in
his way. When he was sober he used to be fond of playing backgammon and
draughts with me, and he would make me his representative both with the
servants and with the tradespeople, so that by the time that I was
sixteen I was quite master of the house. I kept all the keys and could
go where I liked and do what I liked, so long as I did not disturb him
locked, and which he would never permit either me or anyone else to
was never able to see more than such a collection of old trunks and
and he had no friends of any sort. ‘From India!’ said he as he took it
protruding, his skin the colour of putty, and he glared at the envelope
which he still held in his trembling hand, ‘K. K. K.!’ he shrieked, and
“‘Death,’ said he, and rising from the table he retired to his room,
leaving me palpitating with horror. I took up the envelope and saw
breakfast-table, and as I ascended the stair I met him coming down with
an old rusty key, which must have belonged to the attic, in one hand,
and a small brass box, like a cashbox, in the other.
and send down to Fordham, the Horsham lawyer.’
“I did as he ordered, and when the lawyer arrived I was asked to step
up to the room. The fire was burning brightly, and in the grate there
box stood open and empty beside it. As I glanced at the box I noticed,
estate, with all its advantages and all its disadvantages, to my
can enjoy it in peace, well and good! If you find you cannot, take my
advice, my boy, and leave it to your deadliest enemy. I am sorry to
“I signed the paper as directed, and the lawyer took it away with him.
upon me, and I pondered over it and turned it every way in my mind
grew less keen as the weeks passed and nothing happened to disturb the
He drank more than ever, and he was less inclined for any sort of
drunken frenzy and would burst out of the house and tear about the
garden with a revolver in his hand, screaming out that he was afraid of
no man, and that he was not to be cooped up, like a sheep in a pen, by
tumultuously in at the door and lock and bar it behind him, like a man
“Well, to come to an end of the matter, Mr. Holmes, and not to abuse
at the foot of the garden. There was no sign of any violence, and the
however, and my father entered into possession of the estate, and of
of the reception by your uncle of the letter, and the date of his
K. repeated upon it, and ‘Letters, memoranda, receipts, and a register’
papers and note-books bearing upon my uncle’s life in America. Some of
them were of the war time and showed that he had done his duty well and
the reconstruction of the Southern states, and were mostly concerned
Horsham, and all went as well as possible with us until the January of
he was, sitting with a newly opened envelope in one hand and five dried
laughed at what he called my cock-and-bull story about the colonel, but
he looked very scared and puzzled now that the same thing had come upon
land here, and we can’t have tomfoolery of this kind. Where does the
sundials and papers? I shall take no notice of such nonsense.’
home to visit an old friend of his, Major Freebody, who is in command
in the neighbourhood, and was lying senseless, with a shattered skull.
the twilight, and as the country was unknown to him, and the chalk-pit
yet I need not tell you that my mind was far from at ease, and that I
life, and that the danger would be as pressing in one house as in
“It was in January, ’85, that my poor father met his end, and two years
and eight months have elapsed since then. During that time I have lived
happily at Horsham, and I had begun to hope that this curse had passed
away from the family, and that it had ended with the last generation. I
The young man took from his waistcoat a crumpled envelope, and turning
message: ‘K. K. K.’; and then ‘Put the papers on the sundial.’”
“To tell the truth”—he sank his face into his thin, white hands—“I have
resistless, inexorable evil, which no foresight and no precautions can
jokes, and that the deaths of my relations were really accidents, as
the jury stated, and were not to be connected with the warnings.”
Holmes shook his clenched hands in the air. “Incredible imbecility!” he
“Why did you come to me?” he said, “and, above all, why did you not
about my troubles and was advised by him to come to you.”
pocket, and, drawing out a piece of discoloured, blue-tinted paper, he
colour. I found this single sheet upon the floor of his room, and I am
fluttered out from among the others, and in that way has escaped
Holmes moved the lamp, and we both bent over the sheet of paper, which
was headed, “March, 1869,” and beneath were the following enigmatical
“7th. Set the pips on McCauley, Paramore, and John Swain of St.
“Thank you!” said Holmes, folding up the paper and returning it to our
home instantly and act.”
other papers were burned by your uncle, and that this is the only one
out upon the sundial, as directed. Do you understand?”
up the mystery and to punish the guilty parties.”
“I thank you,” said the young man, rising and pulling on his overcoat.
“You have given me fresh life and hope. I shall certainly do as you
threatened by a very real and imminent danger. How do you go back?”
the box and the papers. I shall take your advice in every particular.”
He shook hands with us and took his leave. Outside the wind still
screamed and the rain splashed and pattered against the windows. This
elements—blown in upon us like a sheet of sea-weed in a gale—and now to
forward and his eyes bent upon the red glow of the fire. Then he lit
his pipe, and leaning back in his chair he watched the blue smoke-rings
“Then what are they? Who is this K. K. K., and why does he pursue this
Sherlock Holmes closed his eyes and placed his elbows upon the arms of
ones, both before and after. We have not yet grasped the results which
which have come to his knowledge; and this in itself implies, as you
days of free education and encyclopædias, is a somewhat rare
and this I have endeavoured in my case to do. If I remember rightly,
astronomy, and politics were marked at zero, I remember. Botany
sensational literature and crime records unique, violin-player, boxer,
swordsman, lawyer, and self-poisoner by cocaine and tobacco. Those, I
the furniture that he is likely to use, and the rest he can put away in
to-night, we need certainly to muster all our resources. Kindly hand me
down the letter K of the _American Encyclopædia_ which stands upon the
shelf beside you. Thank you. Now let us consider the situation and see
habits and exchange willingly the charming climate of Florida for the
in England suggests the idea that he was in fear of someone or
which were received by himself and his successors. Did you remark the
“The first was from Pondicherry, the second from Dundee, and the third
Pondicherry, seven weeks elapsed between the threat and its fulfilment,
difference between the mail-boat which brought the letter and the
this new case, and why I urged young Openshaw to caution. The blow has
travel the distance. But this one comes from London, and therefore we
jury. There must have been several in it, and they must have been men
of resource and determination. Their papers they mean to have, be the
the initials of an individual and becomes the badge of a society.”
“Have you never—” said Sherlock Holmes, bending forward and sinking his
Civil War, and it rapidly formed local branches in different parts of
and Florida. Its power was used for political purposes, principally for
the terrorising of the negro voters and the murdering and driving from
him, and usually in some strange and unforeseen manner. So perfect was
the organisation of the society, and so systematic its methods, that
of the efforts of the United States government and of the better
and effect. It is no wonder that he and his family have some of the
more implacable spirits upon their track. You can understand that this
register and diary may implicate some of the first men in the South,
and that there may be many who will not sleep easy at night until it is
pips to A, B, and C’—that is, sent the society’s warning to them. Then
there are successive entries that A and B cleared, or left the country,
and finally that C was visited, with, I fear, a sinister result for C.
and I believe that the only chance young Openshaw has in the meantime
be done to-night, so hand me over my violin and let us try to forget
for half an hour the miserable weather and the still more miserable
It had cleared in the morning, and the sun was shining with a subdued
“No, I shall commence with the City. Just ring the bell and the maid
As I waited, I lifted the unopened newspaper from the table and glanced
“My eye caught the name of Openshaw, and the heading ‘Tragedy Near
“‘Between nine and ten last night Police-Constable Cook, of the H
Division, on duty near Waterloo Bridge, heard a cry for help and a
splash in the water. The night, however, was extremely dark and stormy,
impossible to effect a rescue. The alarm, however, was given, and, by
an envelope which was found in his pocket, was John Openshaw, and whose
hurrying down to catch the last train from Waterloo Station, and that
in his haste and the extreme darkness he missed his path and walked
over the edge of one of the small landing-places for river steamboats.
The body exhibited no traces of violence, and there can be no doubt
the condition of the riverside landing-stages.’”
We sat in silence for some minutes, Holmes more depressed and shaken
now, and, if God sends me health, I shall set my hand upon this gang.
That he should come to me for help, and that I should send him away to
his death—!” He sprang from his chair and paced about the room in
uncontrollable agitation, with a flush upon his sallow cheeks and a
nervous clasping and unclasping of his long thin hands.
All day I was engaged in my professional work, and it was late in the
back yet. It was nearly ten o’clock before he entered, looking pale and
worn. He walked up to the sideboard, and tearing a piece from the loaf
“I have them in the hollow of my hand. Young Openshaw shall not long
He took an orange from the cupboard, and tearing it to pieces he
squeezed out the pips upon the table. Of these he took five and thrust
O.” Then he sealed it and addressed it to “Captain James Calhoun,
and names.
“I have spent the whole day,” said he, “over Lloyd’s registers and
which touched at Pondicherry in January and February in ’83. There were
“I was not and am not sure which; but I knew that the ship must have an
“I searched the Dundee records, and when I found that the barque _Lone
Dock and found that she had been taken down the river by the early tide
this morning, homeward bound to Savannah. I wired to Gravesend and
learned that she had passed some time ago, and as the wind is easterly
I have no doubt that she is now past the Goodwins and not very far from
“Oh, I have my hand upon him. He and the two mates, are as I learn, the
only native-born Americans in the ship. The others are Finns and
have carried this letter, and the cable will have informed the police
There is ever a flaw, however, in the best laid of human plans, and the
would show them that another, as cunning and as resolute as themselves,
was upon their track. Very long and very severe were the equinoctial
it, and that is all which we shall ever know of the fate of the _Lone
habit grew upon him, as I understand, from some foolish freak when he
and sensations, he had drenched his tobacco with laudanum in an attempt
the practice is easier to attain than to get rid of, and for many years
he continued to be a slave to the drug, an object of mingled horror and
pity to his friends and relatives. I can see him now, with yellow,
pasty face, drooping lids, and pin-point pupils, all huddled in a
chair, the wreck and ruin of a noble man.
hour when a man gives his first yawn and glances at the clock. I sat up
in my chair, and my wife laid her needle-work down in her lap and made
We heard the door open, a few hurried words, and then quick steps upon
the linoleum. Our own door flew open, and a lady, clad in some
“You will excuse my calling so late,” she began, and then, suddenly
wife’s neck, and sobbed upon her shoulder. “Oh, I’m in such trouble!”
“It was very sweet of you to come. Now, you must have some wine and
water, and sit here comfortably and tell us all about it. Or should you
“Oh, no, no! I want the doctor’s advice and help, too. It’s about Isa.
It was not the first time that she had spoken to us of her husband’s
trouble, to me as a doctor, to my wife as an old friend and school
companion. We soothed and comforted her by such words as we could find.
Did she know where her husband was? Was it possible that we could bring
day, and he had come back, twitching and shattered, in the evening. But
now the spell had been upon him eight-and-forty hours, and he lay
it, at the Bar of Gold, in Upper Swandam Lane. But what was she to do?
How could she, a young and timid woman, make her way into such a place
and pluck her husband out from among the ruffians who surrounded him?
There was the case, and of course there was but one way out of it.
why should she come at all? I was Isa Whitney’s medical adviser, and as
me. And so in ten minutes I had left my armchair and cheery
sitting-room behind me, and was speeding eastward in a hansom on a
strange errand, as it seemed to me at the time, though the future only
Upper Swandam Lane is a vile alley lurking behind the high wharves
Between a slop-shop and a gin-shop, approached by a steep flight of
feet; and by the light of a flickering oil-lamp above the door I found
the latch and made my way into a long, low room, thick and heavy with
the brown opium smoke, and terraced with wooden berths, like the
back, and chins pointing upward, with here and there a dark,
most lay silent, but some muttered to themselves, and others talked
in gushes, and then suddenly tailing off into silence, each mumbling
out his own thoughts and paying little heed to the words of his
man, with his jaw resting upon his two fists, and his elbows upon his
me and a supply of the drug, beckoning me to an empty berth.
mine here, Mr. Isa Whitney, and I wish to speak with him.”
There was a movement and an exclamation from my right, and peering
through the gloom, I saw Whitney, pale, haggard, and unkempt, staring
want to frighten a chap for?” He sank his face onto his arms and began
you. I wouldn’t frighten Kate—poor little Kate. Give me your hand! Have
and looking about for the manager. As I passed the tall man who sat by
the brazier I felt a sudden pluck at my skirt, and a low voice
whispered, “Walk past me, and then look back at me.” The words fell
from the old man at my side, and yet he sat now as absorbed as ever,
from his fingers. I took two steps forward and looked back. It took all
regained their fire, and there, sitting by the fire and grinning at my
to me to approach him, and instantly, as he turned his face half round
were always so exceedingly definite, and put forward with such a quiet
the cab my mission was practically accomplished; and for the rest, I
led him out to the cab, and seen him driven through the darkness. In a
very short time a decrepit figure had emerged from the opium den, and I
shuffled along with a bent back and an uncertain foot. Then, glancing
quickly round, he straightened himself out and burst into a hearty fit
opium-smoking to cocaine injections, and all the other little
Briefly, Watson, I am in the midst of a very remarkable inquiry, and I
for my own purposes, and the rascally Lascar who runs it has sworn to
murder-trap on the whole riverside, and I fear that Neville St. Clair
put his two forefingers between his teeth and whistled shrilly—a signal
shortly by the rattle of wheels and the clink of horses’ hoofs.
“Oh, a trusty comrade is always of use; and a chronicler still more so.
He flicked the horse with his whip, and we dashed away through the
endless succession of sombre and deserted streets, which widened
wilderness of bricks and mortar, its silence broken only by the heavy,
regular footfall of the policeman, or the songs and shouts of some
sky, and a star or two twinkled dimly here and there through the rifts
breast, and the air of a man who is lost in thought, while I sat beside
his powers so sorely, and yet afraid to break in upon the current of
his thoughts. We had driven several miles, and were beginning to get to
shrugged his shoulders, and lit up his pipe with the air of a man who
“You have a grand gift of silence, Watson,” said he. “It makes you
to Lee. It seems absurdly simple, and yet, somehow I can get nothing to
it into my hand. Now, I’ll state the case clearly and concisely to you,
Watson, and maybe you can see a spark where all is dark to me.”
money. He took a large villa, laid out the grounds very nicely, and
neighbourhood, and in 1887 he married the daughter of a local brewer,
interested in several companies and went into town as a rule in the
good husband, a very affectionate father, and a man who is popular with
he has £ 220 standing to his credit in the Capital and Counties Bank.
commissions to perform, and that he would bring his little boy home a
of the company is in Fresno Street, which branches out of Upper Swandam
office, got her packet, and found herself at exactly 4:35 walking
through Swandam Lane on her way back to the station. Have you followed
“If you remember, Monday was an exceedingly hot day, and Mrs. St. Clair
walking in this way down Swandam Lane, she suddenly heard an
ejaculation or cry, and was struck cold to see her husband looking down
at her and, as it seemed to her, beckoning to her from a second-floor
window. The window was open, and she distinctly saw his face, which she
describes as being terribly agitated. He waved his hands frantically to
her, and then vanished from the window so suddenly that it seemed to
found me to-night—and running through the front room she attempted to
who thrust her back and, aided by a Dane, who acts as assistant there,
and fears, she rushed down the lane and, by rare good-fortune, met in
way to their beat. The inspector and two men accompanied her back, and
made his home there. Both he and the Lascar stoutly swore that no one
their denial that the inspector was staggered, and had almost come to
sprang at a small deal box which lay upon the table and tore the lid
“This discovery, and the evident confusion which the cripple showed,
carefully examined, and results all pointed to an abominable crime. The
front room was plainly furnished as a sitting-room and led into a small
the wharf and the bedroom window is a narrow strip, which is dry at low
tide but is covered at high tide with at least four and a half feet of
water. The bedroom window was a broad one and opened from below. On
examination traces of blood were to be seen upon the windowsill, and
boots, his socks, his hat, and his watch—all were there. There were no
signs of violence upon any of these garments, and there were no other
have gone for no other exit could be discovered, and the ominous
foot of the stair within a very few seconds of her husband’s appearance
crime. His defence was one of absolute ignorance, and he protested that
he had no knowledge as to the doings of Hugh Boone, his lodger, and
upon the second floor of the opium den, and who was certainly the last
Boone, and his hideous face is one which is familiar to every man who
left-hand side, there is, as you may have remarked, a small angle in
cross-legged with his tiny stock of matches on his lap, and as he is a
acquaintance, and I have been surprised at the harvest which he has
turned up the outer edge of his upper lip, a bulldog chin, and a pair
mendicants and so, too, does his wit, for he is ever ready with a reply
den, and to have been the last man to see the gentleman of whom we are
“But a cripple!” said I. “What could he have done single-handed against
respects he appears to be a powerful and well-nurtured man. Surely your
and she was escorted home in a cab by the police, as her presence could
with his friend the Lascar, but this fault was soon remedied, and he
was seized and searched, without anything being found which could
cut near the nail, and explained that the bleeding came from there,
adding that he had been to the window not long before, and that the
and swore that the presence of the clothes in his room was as much a
she had actually seen her husband at the window, he declared that she
feared to find. It was Neville St. Clair’s coat, and not Neville St.
and half-pennies—421 pennies and 270 half-pennies. It was no wonder
different matter. There is a fierce eddy between the wharf and the
“But I understand that all the other clothes were found in the room.
tell-tale garments. He would seize the coat, then, and be in the act of
throwing it out, when it would occur to him that it would swim and not
the wife tried to force her way up, and perhaps he has already heard
where he has accumulated the fruits of his beggary, and he stuffs all
the coins upon which he can lay his hands into the pockets to make sure
of the coat’s sinking. He throws it out, and would have done the same
with the other garments had not he heard the rush of steps below, and
Boone, as I have told you, was arrested and taken to the station, but
appeared to have been a very quiet and innocent one. There the matter
stands at present, and the questions which have to be solved—what
there, where is he now, and what Hugh Boone had to do with his
glance so simple and yet which presented such difficulties.”
until the last straggling houses had been left behind, and we rattled
passing over an angle of Surrey, and ending in Kent. See that light
among the trees? That is The Cedars, and beside that lamp sits a woman
Clair has most kindly put two rooms at my disposal, and you may rest
assured that she will have nothing but a welcome for my friend and
husband. Here we are. Whoa, there, whoa!”
grounds. A stable-boy had run out to the horse’s head, and springing
the house. As we approached, the door flew open, and a little blonde
soie, with a touch of fluffy pink chiffon at her neck and wrists. She
stood with her figure outlined against the flood of light, one hand
bent, her head and face protruded, with eager eyes and parted lips, a
standing question.
companion shook his head and shrugged his shoulders.
several of my cases, and a lucky chance has made it possible for me to
bring him out and associate him with this investigation.”
“I am delighted to see you,” said she, pressing my hand warmly. “You
“My dear madam,” said I, “I am an old campaigner, and if I were not I
now!” she repeated, standing upon the rug and looking keenly down at
He snatched it from her in his eagerness, and smoothing it out upon the
table he drew over the lamp and examined it intently. I had left my
chair and was gazing at it over his shoulder. The envelope was a very
coarse one and was stamped with the Gravesend postmark and with the
“Coarse writing,” murmured Holmes. “Surely this is not your husband’s
“I perceive also that whoever addressed the envelope had to go and
been used. If it had been written straight off, and then blotted, none
would be of a deep black shade. This man has written the name, and
“And you are sure that this is your husband’s hand?”
“One of his hands.”
“His hand when he wrote hurriedly. It is very unlike his usual writing,
and yet I know it well.”
no doubt that it is your husband’s hand, madam?”
“Very well. It may, however, have been written on Monday and only
in the bedroom, and yet I in the dining-room rushed upstairs instantly
that I would respond to such a trifle and yet be ignorant of his
corroborate your view. But if your husband is alive and able to write
“And you were surprised to see him in Swandam Lane?”
“He only, as I understand, gave an inarticulate cry?”
“Yes. He waved his hands.”
unexpected sight of you might cause him to throw up his hands?”
“No, but this horrible man confessed to having been there, and the
“Quite so. Your husband, as far as you could see, had his ordinary
“Had he ever spoken of Swandam Lane?”
I wished to be absolutely clear. We shall now have a little supper and
A large and comfortable double-bedded room had been placed at our
disposal, and I was quickly between the sheets, for I was weary after
had an unsolved problem upon his mind, would go for days, and even for
his coat and waistcoat, put on a large blue dressing-gown, and then
wandered about the room collecting pillows from his bed and cushions
from the sofa and armchairs. With these he constructed a sort of
ounce of shag tobacco and a box of matches laid out in front of him. In
dropped off to sleep, and so he sat when a sudden ejaculation caused me
to wake up, and I found the summer sun shining into the apartment. The
pipe was still between his lips, the smoke still curled upward, and the
sleeps, and we shall soon have the trap out.” He chuckled to himself as
he spoke, his eyes twinkled, and he seemed a different man to the
boots. “I think, Watson, that you are now standing in the presence of
continued, seeing my look of incredulity. “I have just been there, and
I have taken it out, and I have got it in this Gladstone bag. Come on,
my boy, and we shall see whether it will not fit the lock.”
We made our way downstairs as quietly as possible, and out into the
bright morning sunshine. In the road stood our horse and trap, with the
half-clad stable-boy waiting at the head. We both sprang in, and away
either side were as silent and lifeless as some city in a dream.
Passing down the Waterloo Bridge Road we crossed over the river, and
dashing up Wellington Street wheeled sharply to the right and found
and the two constables at the door saluted him. One of them held the
stone-flagged passage, in a peaked cap and frogged jacket. “I wish to
and a telephone projecting from the wall. The inspector sat down at his
“Yes. He was brought up and remanded for further inquiries.”
“Yes, it is all we can do to make him wash his hands, and his face is
will have a regular prison bath; and I think, if you saw him, you would
opened a barred door, passed down a winding stair, and brought us to a
quietly shot back a panel in the upper part of the door and glanced
towards us, in a very deep sleep, breathing slowly and heavily. He was
wheal from an old scar ran right across it from eye to chin, and by its
hair grew low over his eyes and forehead.
might, and I took the liberty of bringing the tools with me.” He opened
the Gladstone bag as he spoke, and took out, to my astonishment, a very
lock, and we all very quietly entered the cell. The sleeper half
turned, and then settled down once more into a deep slumber. Holmes
stooped to the water-jug, moistened his sponge, and then rubbed it
twice vigorously across and down the prisoner’s face.
tint! Gone, too, was the horrid scar which had seamed it across, and
twitch brought away the tangled red hair, and there, sitting up in his
bed, was a pale, sad-faced, refined-looking man, black-haired and
smooth-skinned, rubbing his eyes and staring about him with sleepy
scream and threw himself down with his face to the pillow.
The prisoner turned with the reckless air of a man who abandons himself
been committed, and that, therefore, I am illegally detained.”
Sherlock Holmes sat down beside him on the couch and patted him kindly
“of course you can hardly avoid publicity. On the other hand, if you
make notes upon anything which you might tell us and submit it to the
I travelled in my youth, took to the stage, and finally became a
have a series of articles upon begging in the metropolis, and I
had, of course, learned all the secrets of making up, and had been
attainments. I painted my face, and to make myself as pitiable as
possible I made a good scar and fixed one side of my lip in a twist by
of hair, and an appropriate dress, I took my station in the business
For seven hours I plied my trade, and when I returned home in the
“I wrote my articles and thought little more of the matter until, some
time later, I backed a bill for a friend and had a writ served upon me
for a holiday from my employers, and spent the time in begging in the
City under my disguise. In ten days I had the money and had paid the
smearing my face with a little paint, laying my cap on the ground, and
sitting still. It was a long fight between my pride and the money, but
the dollars won at last, and I threw up reporting and sat day after day
face and filling my pockets with coppers. Only one man knew my secret.
He was the keeper of a low den in which I used to lodge in Swandam
Lane, where I could every morning emerge as a squalid beggar and in the
advantages in my power of making up, and also in a facility of
repartee, which improved by practice and made me quite a recognised
poured in upon me, and it was a very bad day in which I failed to take
and eventually married, without anyone having a suspicion as to my real
“Last Monday I had finished for the day and was dressing in my room
above the opium den when I looked out of my window and saw, to my
horror and astonishment, that my wife was standing in the street, with
to cover my face, and, rushing to my confidant, the Lascar, entreated
my clothes, pulled on those of a beggar, and put on my pigments and
then it occurred to me that there might be a search in the room, and
which I carried my takings. I hurled it out of the window, and it
at that moment there was a rush of constables up the stair, and a few
determined to preserve my disguise as long as possible, and hence my
anxious, I slipped off my ring and confided it to the Lascar at a
“The police have watched this Lascar,” said Inspector Bradstreet, “and
I can quite understand that he might find it difficult to post a letter
unobserved. Probably he handed it to some sailor customer of his, who
“I reached this one,” said my friend, “by sitting upon five pillows and
pipe-rack within his reach upon the right, and a pile of crumpled
morning papers, evidently newly studied, near at hand. Beside the couch
was a wooden chair, and on the angle of the back hung a very seedy and
disreputable hard-felt hat, much the worse for wear, and cracked in
several places. A lens and a forceps lying upon the seat of the chair
it which are not entirely devoid of interest and even of instruction.”
I seated myself in his armchair and warmed my hands before his
crackling fire, for a sharp frost had set in, and the windows were
the clue which will guide you in the solution of some mystery and the
miles. Amid the action and reaction of so dense a swarm of humanity,
every possible combination of events may be expected to take place, and
many a little problem will be presented which may be striking and
to the singular case of Miss Mary Sutherland, and to the adventure of
very honest fellow, was returning from some small jollification and was
saw, in the gaslight, a tallish man, walking with a slight stagger, and
corner of Goodge Street, a row broke out between this stranger and a
which he raised his stick to defend himself and, swinging it over his
having broken the window, and seeing an official-looking person in
uniform rushing towards him, dropped his goose, took to his heels, and
Peterson, so that he was left in possession of the field of battle, and
also of the spoils of victory in the shape of this battered hat and a
left leg, and it is also true that the initials ‘H. B.’ are legible
upon the lining of this hat, but as there are some thousands of Bakers,
and some hundreds of Henry Bakers in this city of ours, it is not easy
“He brought round both hat and goose to me on Christmas morning,
I took the tattered object in my hands and turned it over rather
hard and much the worse for wear. The lining had been of red silk, but
the rest, it was cracked, exceedingly dusty, and spotted in several
“I can see nothing,” said I, handing it back to my friend.
He picked it up and gazed at it in the peculiar introspective fashion
might have been,” he remarked, “and yet there are a few inferences
which are very distinct, and a few others which represent at least a
of course obvious upon the face of it, and also that he was fairly
grizzled hair which he has had cut within the last few days, and which
forehead and settled upon the bridge of his nose. “It is a question of
in then. It is a hat of the very best quality. Look at the band of
ribbed silk and the excellent lining. If this man could afford to buy
so expensive a hat three years ago, and has had no hat since, then he
“Well, that is clear enough, certainly. But how about the foresight and
finger upon the little disc and loop of the hat-securer. “They are
elastic and has not troubled to replace it, it is obvious that he has
weakening nature. On the other hand, he has endeavoured to conceal some
that it has been recently cut, and that he uses lime-cream, are all to
scissors of the barber. They all appear to be adhesive, and there is a
perspired very freely, and could therefore, hardly be in the best of
Watson, with a week’s accumulation of dust upon your hat, and when your
tallow—walks upstairs at night probably with his hat in one hand and a
guttering candle in the other. Anyhow, he never got tallow-stains from
just now, there has been no crime committed, and no harm done save the
and Peterson, the commissionaire, rushed into the apartment with
flushed cheeks and the face of a man who is dazed with astonishment.
“Eh? What of it, then? Has it returned to life and flapped off through
hand and displayed upon the centre of the palm a brilliantly
such purity and radiance that it twinkled like an electric point in the
dark hollow of his hand.
“Precisely so. I ought to know its size and shape, seeing that I have
absolutely unique, and its value can only be conjectured, but the
“A thousand pounds! Great Lord of mercy!” The commissionaire plumped
down into a chair and stared from one to the other of us.
“That is the reward, and I have reason to know that there are
until at last he smoothed one out, doubled it over, and read the
bureau had been forced open, and that the small morocco casket in
gave the alarm, and Horner was arrested the same evening; but the stone
dismay on discovering the robbery, and to having rushed into the room,
struggled frantically, and protested his innocence in the strongest
and was carried out of court.”
deductions have suddenly assumed a much more important and less
innocent aspect. Here is the stone; the stone came from the goose, and
the goose came from Mr. Henry Baker, the gentleman with the bad hat and
must set ourselves very seriously to finding this gentleman and
this, we must try the simplest means first, and these lie undoubtedly
“Give me a pencil and that slip of paper. Now, then: ‘Found at the
corner of Goodge Street, a goose and a black felt hat. Mr. Henry Baker
Street.’ That is clear and concise.”
breaking the window and by the approach of Peterson that he thought of
down to the advertising agency and have this put in the evening
_Evening News_, _Standard_, _Echo_, and any others that occur to you.”
buy a goose on your way back and leave it here with me, for we must
When the commissionaire had gone, Holmes took up the stone and held it
glints and sparkles. Of course it is a nucleus and focus of crime.
Every good stone is. They are the devil’s pet baits. In the larger and
older jewels every facet may stand for a bloody deed. This stone is not
southern China and is remarkable in having every characteristic of the
murders, a vitriol-throwing, a suicide, and several robberies brought
and the prison? I’ll lock it up in my strong box now and drop a line to
I had been delayed at a case, and it was a little after half-past six
and we were shown up together to Holmes’ room.
“Mr. Henry Baker, I believe,” said he, rising from his armchair and
cold night, and I observe that your circulation is more adapted for
He was a large man with rounded shoulders, a massive head, and a broad,
touch of red in nose and cheeks, with a slight tremor of his extended
hand, recalled Holmes’ surmise as to his habits. His rusty black
and his lank wrists protruded from his sleeves without a sign of cuff
care, and gave the impression generally of a man of learning and
letters who had had ill-usage at the hands of fortune.
the gang of roughs who assaulted me had carried off both my hat and the
same weight and perfectly fresh, will answer your purpose equally
“Of course, we still have the feathers, legs, crop, and so on of your
“There is your hat, then, and there your bird,” said he. “By the way,
somewhat of a fowl fancier, and I have seldom seen a better grown
“Certainly, sir,” said Baker, who had risen and tucked his newly gained
day, you understand. This year our good host, Windigate by name,
duly paid, and the rest is familiar to you. I am much indebted to you,
With a comical pomposity of manner he bowed solemnly to both of us and
“Then I suggest that we turn our dinner into a supper and follow up
It was a bitter night, so we drew on our ulsters and wrapped cravats
cloudless sky, and the breath of the passers-by blew out into smoke
like so many pistol shots. Our footfalls rang out crisply and loudly as
and so through Wigmore Street into Oxford Street. In a quarter of an
Holborn. Holmes pushed open the door of the private bar and ordered two
glasses of beer from the ruddy-faced, white-aproned landlord.
“Ah! I don’t know him. Well, here’s your good health landlord, and
which has been missed by the police, and which a singular chance has
placed in our hands. Let us follow it out to the bitter end. Faces to
the south, then, and quick march!”
We passed across Holborn, down Endell Street, and so through a zigzag
name of Breckinridge upon it, and the proprietor a horsey-looking man,
with a sharp face and trim side-whiskers was helping a boy to put up
The salesman nodded and shot a questioning glance at my companion.
“The landlord of the Alpha.”
“Now, then, mister,” said he, with his head cocked and his arms akimbo,
business; but it’s ‘Where are the geese?’ and ‘Who did you sell the
geese to?’ and ‘What will you take for the geese?’ One would think they
of fowls, and I have a fiver on it that the bird I ate is country
“D’you think you know more about fowls than I, who have handled them
The small boy brought round a small thin volume and a great
here on this page are the country folk, and the numbers after their
117, Brixton Road, egg and poultry supplier.’”
pocket and threw it down upon the slab, turning away with the air of a
under a lamp-post and laughed in the hearty, noiseless fashion which
“When you see a man with whiskers of that cut and the ‘Pink ’un’
fancy, nearing the end of our quest, and the only point which remains
ourselves who are anxious about the matter, and I should—”
rat-faced fellow standing in the centre of the circle of yellow light
“I’ve had enough of you and your geese,” he shouted. “I wish you were
silly talk I’ll set the dog at you. You bring Mrs. Oakshott here and
of it. Get out of this!” He rushed fiercely forward, and the inquirer
with me, and we will see what is to be made of this fellow.” Striding
stalls, my companion speedily overtook the little man and touched him
upon the shoulder. He sprang round, and I could see in the gas-light
“You will excuse me,” said Holmes blandly, “but I could not help
named Breckinridge, by him in turn to Mr. Windigate, of the Alpha, and
little fellow with outstretched hands and quivering fingers. “I can
the cab, and I shall soon be able to tell you everything which you
the cab, and in half an hour we were back in the sitting-room at Baker
breathing of our new companion, and the claspings and unclaspings of
his hands, spoke of the nervous tension within him.
“Yes, and a most remarkable bird it proved. I don’t wonder that you
Our visitor staggered to his feet and clutched the mantelpiece with his
right hand. Holmes unlocked his strong-box and held up the blue
brandy. So! Now he looks a little more human. What a shrimp it is, to
For a moment he had staggered and nearly fallen, but the brandy brought
a tinge of colour into his cheeks, and he sat staring with frightened
“I have almost every link in my hands, and all the proofs which I could
been concerned in some such matter before, and that suspicion would
small job in my lady’s room—you and your confederate Cusack—and you
rifled the jewel-case, raised the alarm, and had this unfortunate man
Ryder threw himself down suddenly upon the rug and clutched at my
cringe and crawl now, but you thought little enough of this poor Horner
the next act. How came the stone into the goose, and how came the goose
into their heads to search me and my room. There was no place about the
hotel where it would be safe. I went out, as if on some commission, and
I made for my sister’s house. She had married a man named Oakshott, and
detective; and, for all that it was a cold night, the sweat was pouring
was the matter, and why I was so pale; but I told her that I had been
and smoked a pipe and wondered what it would be best to do.
“I had a friend once called Maudsley, who went to the bad, and has just
been serving his time in Pentonville. One day he had met me, and fell
into talk about the ways of thieves, and how they could get rid of what
he lived, and take him into my confidence. He would show me how to turn
moment be seized and searched, and there would be the stone in my
waistcoat pocket. I was leaning against the wall at the time and
looking at the geese which were waddling about round my feet, and
her geese for a Christmas present, and I knew that she was always as
good as her word. I would take my goose now, and in it I would carry my
stone to Kilburn. There was a little shed in the yard, and behind this
caught it, and prying its bill open, I thrust the stone down its throat
as far as my finger could reach. The bird gave a gulp, and I felt the
stone pass along its gullet and down into its crop. But the creature
flapped and struggled, and out came my sister to know what was the
matter. As I turned to speak to her the brute broke loose and fluttered
“‘Well,’ said I, ‘you said you’d give me one for Christmas, and I was
makes one for you, and one for us, and two dozen for the market.’
rather have that one I was handling just now.’
“‘The other is a good three pound heavier,’ said she, ‘and we fattened
“‘Never mind. I’ll have the other, and I’ll take it now,’ said I.
“‘Oh, very well. Kill it and take it with you.’
“Well, I did what she said, Mr. Holmes, and I carried the bird all the
was easy to tell a thing like that to. He laughed until he choked, and
we got a knife and opened the goose. My heart turned to water, for
there was no sign of the stone, and I knew that some terrible mistake
had occurred. I left the bird, rushed back to my sister’s, and hurried
“‘Yes, Jem; there were two barred-tailed ones, and I could never tell
“Well, then, of course I saw it all, and I ran off as hard as my feet
once, and not one word would he tell me as to where they had gone. You
myself. And now—and now I am myself a branded thief, without ever
his hands.
There was a long silence, broken only by his heavy breathing and by the
table. Then my friend rose and threw open the door.
stairs, the bang of a door, and the crisp rattle of running footfalls
“After all, Watson,” said Holmes, reaching up his hand for his clay
not appear against him, and the case must collapse. I suppose that I am
Send him to gaol now, and you make him a gaol-bird for life. Besides,
singular and whimsical problem, and its solution is its own reward. If
with any investigation which did not tend towards the unusual, and even
Sherlock Holmes standing, fully dressed, by the side of my bed. He was
a late riser, as a rule, and as the clock on the mantelpiece showed me
surprise, and perhaps just a little resentment, for I was myself
and I on you.”
the sitting-room. Now, when young ladies wander about the metropolis at
this hour of the morning, and knock sleepy people up out of their beds,
should call you and give you the chance.”
investigations, and in admiring the rapid deductions, as swift as
intuitions, and yet always founded on a logical basis with which he
my clothes and was ready in a few minutes to accompany my friend down
to the sitting-room. A lady dressed in black and heavily veiled, who
Holmes. This is my intimate friend and associate, Dr. Watson, before
to it, and I shall order you a cup of hot coffee, for I observe that
spoke, and we could see that she was indeed in a pitiable state of
agitation, her face all drawn and grey, with restless frightened eyes,
like those of some hunted animal. Her features and figure were those of
a woman of thirty, but her hair was shot with premature grey, and her
expression was weary and haggard. Sherlock Holmes ran her over with one
“You must not fear,” said he soothingly, bending forward and patting
your left glove. You must have started early, and yet you had a good
The lady gave a violent start and stared in bewilderment at my
throws up mud in that way, and then only when you sit on the left-hand
started from home before six, reached Leatherhead at twenty past, and
came in by the first train to Waterloo. Sir, I can stand this strain no
save only one, who cares for me, and he, poor fellow, can be of little
help me, too, and at least throw a little light through the dense
with the control of my own income, and then at least you shall not find
Holmes turned to his desk and, unlocking it, drew out a small
the fact that my fears are so vague, and my suspicions depend so
even he to whom of all others I have a right to look for help and
answers and averted eyes. But I have heard, Mr. Holmes, that you can
“My name is Helen Stoner, and I am living with my stepfather, who is
the last survivor of one of the oldest Saxon families in England, the
“The family was at one time among the richest in England, and the
estates extended over the borders into Berkshire in the north, and
heirs were of a dissolute and wasteful disposition, and the family ruin
Nothing was left save a few acres of ground, and the
medical degree and went out to Calcutta, where, by his professional
skill and his force of character, he established a large practice. In a
perpetrated in the house, he beat his native butler to death and
of imprisonment and afterwards returned to England a morose and
Julia and I were twins, and we were only two years old at the time of
than £ 1000 a year—and this she bequeathed to Dr. Roylott entirely
after our return to England my mother died—she was killed eight years
ago in a railway accident near Crewe. Dr. Roylott then abandoned his
attempts to establish himself in practice in London and took us to live
mother had left was enough for all our wants, and there seemed to be no
Instead of making friends and exchanging visits with our neighbours,
the old family seat, he shut himself up in his house and seldom came
the men of the family, and in my stepfather’s case it had, I believe,
until at last he became the terror of the village, and the folks would
fly at his approach, for he is a man of immense strength, and
and it was only by paying over all the money which I could gather
friends at all save the wandering gipsies, and he would give these
vagabonds leave to encamp upon the few acres of bramble-covered land
which represent the family estate, and would accept in return the
hospitality of their tents, wandering away with them sometimes for
over to him by a correspondent, and he has at this moment a cheetah and
a baboon, which wander freely over his grounds and are feared by the
“You can imagine from what I say that my poor sister Julia and I had no
great pleasure in our lives. No servant would stay with us, and for a
time of her death, and yet her hair had already begun to whiten, even
“She died just two years ago, and it is of her death that I wish to
speak to you. You can understand that, living the life which I have
described, we were little likely to see anyone of our own age and
Honoria Westphail, who lives near Harrow, and we were occasionally
Christmas two years ago, and met there a half-pay major of marines, to
my sister returned and offered no objection to the marriage; but within
and his head sunk in a cushion, but he half opened his lids now and
old, and only one wing is now inhabited. The bedrooms in this wing are
my sister’s, and the third my own. There is no communication between
room, therefore, and came into mine, where she sat for some time,
leave me, but she paused at the door and looked back.
morning, heard a low, clear whistle. I am a light sleeper, and it has
me, closed my door, and a few moments later I heard her key turn in the
“I think that I mentioned to you that the Doctor kept a cheetah and a
impressed me. My sister and I, you will recollect, were twins, and you
allied. It was a wild night. The wind was howling outside, and the rain
was beating and splashing against the windows. Suddenly, amid all the
wrapped a shawl round me, and rushed into the corridor. As I opened my
door I seemed to hear a low whistle, such as my sister described, and a
As I ran down the passage, my sister’s door was unlocked, and revolved
hands groping for help, her whole figure swaying to and fro like that
of a drunkard. I ran to her and threw my arms round her, but at that
moment her knees seemed to give way and she fell to the ground. She
writhed as one who is in terrible pain, and her limbs were dreadfully
forget, ‘Oh, my God! Helen! It was the band! The speckled band!’ There
was something else which she would fain have said, and she stabbed with
fresh convulsion seized her and choked her words. I rushed out, calling
loudly for my stepfather, and I met him hastening from his room in his
and though he poured brandy down her throat and sent for medical aid
from the village, all efforts were in vain, for she slowly sank and
“One moment,” said Holmes, “are you sure about this whistle and
strong impression that I heard it, and yet, among the crash of the gale
and the creaking of an old house, I may possibly have been deceived.”
“No, she was in her night-dress. In her right hand was found the
charred stump of a match, and in her left a match-box.”
“Showing that she had struck a light and looked about her when the
fastened upon the inner side, and the windows were blocked by
night. The walls were carefully sounded, and were shown to be quite
solid all round, and the flooring was also thoroughly examined, with
“It is my belief that she died of pure fear and nervous shock, though
“Ah, and what did you gather from this allusion to a band—a speckled
band?”
sometimes that it may have referred to some band of people, perhaps to
handkerchiefs which so many of them wear over their heads might have
“Two years have passed since then, and my life has been until lately
known for many years, has done me the honour to ask my hand in
opposition to the match, and we are to be married in the course of the
building, and my bedroom wall has been pierced, so that I have had to
move into the chamber in which my sister died, and to sleep in the very
herald of her own death. I sprang up and lit the lamp, but nothing was
so I dressed, and as soon as it was daylight I slipped down, got a
dog-cart at the Crown Inn, which is opposite, and drove to Leatherhead,
you and asking your advice.”
hand that lay upon our visitor’s knee. Five little livid spots, the
marks of four fingers and a thumb, were printed upon the white wrist.
The lady coloured deeply and covered over her injured wrist. “He is a
hard man,” she said, “and perhaps he hardly knows his own strength.”
hands and stared into the crackling fire.
“This is a very deep business,” he said at last. “There are a thousand
important business. It is probable that he will be away all day, and
but she is old and foolish, and I could easily get her out of the way.”
business matters to attend to. Will you not wait and breakfast?”
afternoon.” She dropped her thick black veil over her face and glided
“It seems to me to be a most dark and sinister business.”
“Dark enough and sinister enough.”
“Yet if the lady is correct in saying that the flooring and walls are
sound, and that the door, window, and chimney are impassable, then her
“What becomes, then, of these nocturnal whistles, and what of the very
band of gipsies who are on intimate terms with this old doctor, the
to a band, and, finally, the fact that Miss Helen Stoner heard a
door had been suddenly dashed open, and that a huge man had framed
professional and of the agricultural, having a black top-hat, a long
frock-coat, and a pair of high gaiters, with a hunting-crop swinging in
his hand. So tall was he that his hat actually brushed the cross bar of
the doorway, and his breadth seemed to span it across from side to
side. A large face, seared with a thousand wrinkles, burned yellow with
the sun, and marked with every evil passion, was turned from one to the
other of us, while his deep-set, bile-shot eyes, and his high, thin,
“Indeed, Doctor,” said Holmes blandly. “Pray take a seat.”
forward and shaking his hunting-crop. “I know you, you scoundrel! I
“Holmes, the Scotland Yard Jack-in-office!”
seized the poker, and bent it into a curve with his huge brown hands.
“See that you keep yourself out of my grip,” he snarled, and hurling
the steel poker and, with a sudden effort, straightened it out again.
however, and I only trust that our little friend will not suffer from
shall order breakfast, and afterwards I shall walk down to Doctors’
excursion. He held in his hand a sheet of blue paper, scrawled over
with notes and figures.
proved that he has the very strongest motives for standing in the way
ourselves in his affairs; so if you are ready, we shall call a cab and
with gentlemen who can twist steel pokers into knots. That and a
where we hired a trap at the station inn and drove for four or five
bright sun and a few fleecy clouds in the heavens. The trees and
wayside hedges were just throwing out their first green shoots, and the
and this sinister quest upon which we were engaged. My companion sat in
eyes, and his chin sunk upon his breast, buried in the deepest thought.
Suddenly, however, he started, tapped me on the shoulder, and pointed
the grey gables and high roof-tree of a very old mansion.
find it shorter to get over this stile, and so by the footpath over the
We got off, paid our fare, and the trap rattled back on its way to
cried, shaking hands with us warmly. “All has turned out splendidly.
Dr. Roylott has gone to town, and it is unlikely that he will be back
Holmes, and in a few words he sketched out what had occurred. Miss
portion and two curving wings, like the claws of a crab, thrown out on
each side. In one of these wings the windows were broken and blocked
right-hand block was comparatively modern, and the blinds in the
against the end wall, and the stone-work had been broken into, but
walked slowly up and down the ill-trimmed lawn and examined with deep
centre one to your sister’s, and the one next to the main building to
“Pending the alterations, as I understand. By the way, there does not
and bar your shutters?”
Miss Stoner did so, and Holmes, after a careful examination through the
sleeping, and in which her sister had met with her fate. It was a
homely little room, with a low ceiling and a gaping fireplace, after
one corner, a narrow white-counterpaned bed in another, and a
dressing-table on the left-hand side of the window. These articles,
and the panelling of the walls were of brown, worm-eaten oak, so old
and discoloured that it may have dated from the original building of
the house. Holmes drew one of the chairs into a corner and sat silent,
while his eyes travelled round and round and up and down, taking in
floor.” He threw himself down upon his face with his lens in his hand
and crawled swiftly backward and forward, examining minutely the cracks
the chamber was panelled. Finally he walked over to the bed and spent
some time in staring at it and in running his eye up and down the wall.
Finally he took the bell-rope in his hand and gave it a brisk tug.
bell-ropes, and ventilators which do not ventilate. With your
and a large iron safe were the principal things which met the eye.
Holmes walked slowly round and examined each and all of them with the
“No; we don’t keep a cat. But there is a cheetah and a baboon.”
“Ah, yes, of course! Well, a cheetah is just a big cat, and yet a
in front of the wooden chair and examined the seat of it with the
“Thank you. That is quite settled,” said he, rising and putting his
corner of the bed. The lash, however, was curled upon itself and tied
“That is not quite so common, is it? Ah, me! it’s a wicked world, and
think that I have seen enough now, Miss Stoner, and with your
several times up and down the lawn, neither Miss Stoner nor myself
“I assure you that I am in your hands.”
“In the first place, both my friend and I must spend the night in your
Both Miss Stoner and I gazed at him in astonishment.
your lamp there as a signal to us, and then withdraw quietly with
“The rest you will leave in our hands.”
“We shall spend the night in your room, and we shall investigate the
Miss Stoner, laying her hand upon my companion’s sleeve.
“You can at least tell me whether my own thought is correct, and if she
Roylott returned and saw us our journey would be in vain. Good-bye, and
Sherlock Holmes and I had no difficulty in engaging a bedroom and
sitting-room at the Crown Inn. They were on the upper floor, and from
our window we could command a view of the avenue gate, and of the
the heavy iron gates, and we heard the hoarse roar of the Doctor’s
voice and saw the fury with which he shook his clinched fists at him.
The trap drove on, and a few minutes later we saw a sudden light spring
“I saw nothing remarkable save the bell-rope, and what purpose that
is made, a cord is hung, and a lady who sleeps in the bed dies. Does
relative position to the ventilator and to the rope—or so we may call
only just in time to prevent some subtle and horrible crime.”
“Subtle enough and horrible enough. When a doctor does go wrong he is
the first of criminals. He has nerve and he has knowledge. Palmer and
over; for goodness’ sake let us have a quiet pipe and turn our minds
About nine o’clock the light among the trees was extinguished, and all
away, and then, suddenly, just at the stroke of eleven, a single bright
As we passed out he exchanged a few words with the landlord, explaining
that we were going on a late visit to an acquaintance, and that it was
out on the dark road, a chill wind blowing in our faces, and one yellow
sombre errand.
reached the lawn, crossed it, and were about to enter through the
to be a hideous and distorted child, who threw itself upon the grass
with writhing limbs and then ran swiftly across the lawn into the
Holmes was for the moment as startled as I. His hand closed like a vice
upon my wrist in his agitation. Then he broke into a low laugh and put
Holmes’ example and slipping off my shoes, I found myself inside the
onto the table, and cast his eyes round the room. All was as we had
seen it in the daytime. Then creeping up to me and making a trumpet of
his hand, he whispered into my ear again so gently that it was all that
ready in case we should need it. I will sit on the side of the bed, and
I took out my revolver and laid it on the corner of the table.
Holmes had brought up a long thin cane, and this he placed upon the bed
beside him. By it he laid the box of matches and the stump of a candle.
Then he turned down the lamp, and we were left in darkness.
not even the drawing of a breath, and yet I knew that my companion sat
light, and we waited in absolute darkness.
From outside came the occasional cry of a night-bird, and once at our
seemed, those quarters! Twelve struck, and one and two and three, and
strong smell of burning oil and heated metal. Someone in the next room
had lit a dark-lantern. I heard a gentle sound of movement, and then
Holmes sprang from the bed, struck a match, and lashed furiously with
so savagely. I could, however, see that his face was deadly pale and
filled with horror and loathing. He had ceased to strike and was gazing
up louder and louder, a hoarse yell of pain and fear and anger all
village, and even in the distant parsonage, that cry raised the
sleepers from their beds. It struck cold to our hearts, and I stood
gazing at Holmes, and he at me, until the last echoes of it had died
all, it is for the best. Take your pistol, and we will enter Dr.
With a grave face he lit the lamp and led the way down the corridor.
he turned the handle and entered, I at his heels, with the cocked
pistol in my hand.
grey dressing-gown, his bare ankles protruding beneath, and his feet
was cocked upward and his eyes were fixed in a dreadful, rigid stare at
band, with brownish speckles, which seemed to be bound tightly round
“The band! the speckled band!” whispered Holmes.
move, and there reared itself from among his hair the squat
diamond-shaped head and puffed neck of a loathsome serpent.
recoil upon the violent, and the schemer falls into the pit which he
digs for another. Let us thrust this creature back into its den, and we
can then remove Miss Stoner to some place of shelter and let the county
As he spoke he drew the dog-whip swiftly from the dead man’s lap, and
perch and, carrying it at arm’s length, threw it into the iron safe,
insufficient data. The presence of the gipsies, and the use of the word
‘band,’ which was used by the poor girl, no doubt, to explain the
this ventilator, and to the bell-rope which hung down to the bed. The
discovery that this was a dummy, and that the bed was clamped to the
a bridge for something passing through the hole and coming to the bed.
The idea of a snake instantly occurred to me, and when I coupled it
clever and ruthless man who had had an Eastern training. The rapidity
would crawl down the rope and land on the bed. It might or might not
standing on it, which of course would be necessary in order that he
and the loop of whipcord were enough to finally dispel any doubts which
creature hiss as I have no doubt that you did also, and I instantly lit
the light and attacked it.”
other side. Some of the blows of my cane came home and roused its
death, and I cannot say that it is likely to weigh very heavily upon my
of Mr. Hatherley’s thumb, and that of Colonel Warburton’s madness. Of
these the latter may have afforded a finer field for an acute and
original observer, but the other was so strange in its inception and so
when the facts slowly evolve before your own eyes, and the mystery
deep impression upon me, and the lapse of two years has hardly served
civil practice and had finally abandoned Holmes in his Baker Street
rooms, although I continually visited him and occasionally even
persuaded him to forgo his Bohemian habits so far as to come and visit
us. My practice had steadily increased, and as I happened to live at no
among the officials. One of these, whom I had cured of a painful and
lingering disease, was never weary of advertising my virtues and of
Paddington and were waiting in the consulting-room. I dressed
trivial, and hastened downstairs. As I descended, my old ally, the
guard, came out of the room and closed the door tightly behind him.
myself; then he couldn’t slip away. There he is, all safe and sound. I
I entered my consulting-room and found a gentleman seated by the table.
which he had laid down upon my books. Round one of his hands he had a
handkerchief wrapped, which was mottled all over with bloodstains. He
was young, not more than five-and-twenty, I should say, with a strong,
masculine face; but he was exceedingly pale and gave me the impression
morning, and on inquiring at Paddington as to where I might find a
I took it up and glanced at it. “Mr. Victor Hatherley, hydraulic
and abode of my morning visitor. “I regret that I have kept you
a night journey, I understand, which is in itself a monotonous
“Oh, my night could not be called monotonous,” said he, and laughed. He
chair and shaking his sides. All my medical instincts rose up against
“Stop it!” I cried; “pull yourself together!” and I poured out some
over and gone. Presently he came to himself once more, very weary and
“Not at all. Drink this.” I dashed some brandy into the water, and the
He unwound the handkerchief and held out his hand. It gave even my
fingers and a horrid red, spongy surface where the thumb should have
“Yes, it did. I fainted when it was done, and I think that I must have
still bleeding, so I tied one end of my handkerchief very tightly round
the wrist and braced it up with a twig.”
“It is a question of hydraulics, you see, and came within my own
“This has been done,” said I, examining the wound, “by a very heavy and
I sponged the wound, cleaned it, dressed it, and finally covered it
over with cotton wadding and carbolised bandages. He lay back without
“Capital! Between your brandy and your bandage, I feel a new man. I was
it is a very extraordinary one, and I have not much in the way of proof
with which to back it up; and, even if they believe me, the clues which
“Oh, I have heard of that fellow,” answered my visitor, “and I should
“We’ll call a cab and go together. We shall just be in time to have a
“Then my servant will call a cab, and I shall be with you in an
and in five minutes was inside a hansom, driving with my new
his dressing-gown, reading the agony column of _The Times_ and smoking
his before-breakfast pipe, which was composed of all the plugs and
dottles left from his smokes of the day before, all carefully dried and
quietly genial fashion, ordered fresh rashers and eggs, and joined us
upon the sofa, placed a pillow beneath his head, and laid a glass of
brandy and water within his reach.
Hatherley,” said he. “Pray, lie down there and make yourself absolutely
at home. Tell us what you can, but stop when you are tired and keep up
doctor bandaged me, and I think that your breakfast has completed the
which veiled his keen and eager nature, while I sat opposite to him,
and we listened in silence to the strange story which our visitor
“You must know,” said he, “that I am an orphan and a bachelor, residing
and I have had considerable experience of my work during the seven
of Greenwich. Two years ago, having served my time, and having also
determined to start in business for myself and took professional
years I have had three consultations and one small job, and that is
to sink, and I came to believe that I should never have any practice at
Lysander Stark’ engraved upon it. Close at his heels came the colonel
face sharpened away into nose and chin, and the skin of his cheeks was
drawn quite tense over his outstanding bones. Yet this emaciation
seemed to be his natural habit, and due to no disease, for his eye was
bright, his step brisk, and his bearing assured. He was plainly but
neatly dressed, and his age, I should judge, would be nearer forty than
proficient in his profession but is also discreet and capable of
and a bachelor and are residing alone in London.’
qualifications. I understand that it was on a professional matter that
is quite essential—absolute secrecy, you understand, and of course we
“He looked very hard at me as I spoke, and it seemed to me that I had
never seen so suspicious and questioning an eye.
“‘Absolute and complete silence before, during, and after? No reference
“‘Very good.’ He suddenly sprang up, and darting like lightning across
safety.’ He drew up his chair very close to mine and began to stare at
me again with the same questioning and thoughtful look.
“A feeling of repulsion, and of something akin to fear had begun to
“‘The work appears to be light and the pay munificent.’
Oxfordshire, and within seven miles of Reading. There is a train from
you for any inconvenience that we are paying to you, a young and
“I thought of the fifty guineas, and of how very useful they would be
myself to your wishes. I should like, however, to understand a little
“‘Then the matter stands thus. You are probably aware that
fuller’s-earth is a valuable product, and that it is only found in one
or two places in England?’
however, I found that this deposit was a comparatively small one, and
and left—both of them, however, in the grounds of my neighbours. These
good people were absolutely ignorant that their land contained that
interest to buy their land before they discovered its true value, but
of my friends into the secret, however, and they suggested that we
should quietly and secretly work our own little deposit and that in
neighbouring fields. This we have now been doing for some time, and in
press, as I have already explained, has got out of order, and we wish
however, and if it once became known that we had hydraulic engineers
coming to our little house, it would soon rouse inquiry, and then, if
fields and carrying out our plans. That is why I have made you promise
understand was what use you could make of a hydraulic press in
excavating fuller’s-earth, which, as I understand, is dug out like
confidence now, Mr. Hatherley, and I have shown you how I trust you.’
questioning gaze, and then, pressing my hand in a cold, dank grasp, he
been intrusted to me. On the one hand, of course, I was glad, for the
upon my own services, and it was possible that this order might lead to
other ones. On the other hand, the face and manner of my patron had
made an unpleasant impression upon me, and I could not think that his
necessity for my coming at midnight, and his extreme anxiety lest I
should tell anyone of my errand. However, I threw all fears to the
winds, ate a hearty supper, drove to Paddington, and started off,
However, I was in time for the last train to Eyford, and I reached the
who got out there, and there was no one upon the platform save a single
upon the other side. Without a word he grasped my arm and hurried me
into a carriage, the door of which was standing open. He drew up the
windows on either side, tapped on the wood-work, and away we went as
“Oh, fresh and glossy.”
“Away we went then, and we drove for at least an hour. Colonel Lysander
the rate that we seemed to go, and from the time that we took, that it
time, and I was aware, more than once when I glanced in his direction,
to be not very good in that part of the world, for we lurched and
where we were, but they were made of frosted glass, and I could make
out nothing save the occasional bright blur of a passing light. Now and
the colonel answered only in monosyllables, and the conversation soon
the crisp smoothness of a gravel-drive, and the carriage came to a
stand. Colonel Lysander Stark sprang out, and, as I followed after him,
as it were, right out of the carriage and into the hall, so that I
behind us, and I heard faintly the rattle of the wheels as the carriage
“It was pitch dark inside the house, and the colonel fumbled about
looking for matches and muttering under his breath. Suddenly a door
opened at the other end of the passage, and a long, golden bar of light
shot out in our direction. It grew broader, and a woman appeared with a
lamp in her hand, which she held above her head, pushing her face
forward and peering at us. I could see that she was pretty, and from
tone as though asking a question, and when my companion answered in a
her hand. Colonel Stark went up to her, whispered something in her ear,
and then, pushing her back into the room from whence she had come, he
walked towards me again with the lamp in his hand.
waiting an instant,’ said he, and vanished into the darkness.
“I glanced at the books upon the table, and in spite of my ignorance of
uneasiness began to steal over me. Who were these German people, and
matter, Reading, and possibly other large towns, were within that
country. I paced up and down the room, humming a tune under my breath
to keep up my spirits and feeling that I was thoroughly earning my
standing in the aperture, the darkness of the hall behind her, the
yellow light from my lamp beating upon her eager and beautiful face. I
could see at a glance that she was sick with fear, and the sight sent a
silent, and she shot a few whispered words of broken English at me, her
through the door; no one hinders.’ And then, seeing that I smiled and
shook my head, she suddenly threw aside her constraint and made a step
forward, with her hands wrung together. ‘For the love of Heaven!’ she
“But I am somewhat headstrong by nature, and the more ready to engage
fifty-guinea fee, of my wearisome journey, and of the unpleasant night
I slink away without having carried out my commission, and without the
shaken me more than I cared to confess, I still shook my head and
her entreaties when a door slammed overhead, and the sound of several
up her hands with a despairing gesture, and vanished as suddenly and as
“The newcomers were Colonel Lysander Stark and a short thick man with a
“‘This is my secretary and manager,’ said the colonel. ‘By the way, I
proceed to business, then,’ said he. ‘Mr. Ferguson and I will take you
we wish you to do is to examine the machine and to let us know what is
manager and I behind him. It was a labyrinth of an old house, with
corridors, passages, narrow winding staircases, and little low doors,
crossed them. There were no carpets and no signs of any furniture above
the ground floor, while the plaster was peeling off the walls, and the
warnings of the lady, even though I disregarded them, and I kept a keen
eye upon my two companions. Ferguson appeared to be a morose and silent
“Colonel Lysander Stark stopped at last before a low door, which he
could hardly get at one time. Ferguson remained outside, and the
“‘We are now,’ said he, ‘actually within the hydraulic press, and it
descending piston, and it comes down with the force of many tons upon
which receive the force, and which transmit and multiply it in the
there is some stiffness in the working of it, and it has lost a little
of its force. Perhaps you will have the goodness to look it over and to
“I took the lamp from him, and I examined the machine very thoroughly.
It was indeed a gigantic one, and capable of exercising enormous
pressure. When I passed outside, however, and pressed down the levers
india-rubber bands which was round the head of a driving-rod had shrunk
clearly the cause of the loss of power, and I pointed it out to my
companions, who followed my remarks very carefully and asked several
machine and took a good look at it to satisfy my own curiosity. It was
wood, but the floor consisted of a large iron trough, and when I came
had stooped and was scraping at this to see exactly what it was when I
heard a muttered exclamation in German and saw the cadaverous face of
speech. His face set hard, and a baleful light sprang up in his grey
a step backward, slammed the little door, and turned the key in the
lock. I rushed towards it and pulled at the handle, but it was quite
secure, and did not give in the least to my kicks and shoves. ‘Hullo!’
into my mouth. It was the clank of the levers and the swish of the
screaming, against the door, and dragged with my nails at the lock. I
head, and with my hand upraised I could feel its hard, rough surface.
weight would come upon my spine, and I shuddered to think of that
dreadful snap. Easier the other way, perhaps; and yet, had I the nerve
to lie and look up at that deadly black shadow wavering down upon me?
Already I was unable to stand erect, when my eye caught something which
“I have said that though the floor and ceiling were of iron, the walls
of yellow light between two of the boards, which broadened and
The next instant I threw myself through, and lay half-fainting upon the
lamp, and a few moments afterwards the clang of the two slabs of metal,
“I was recalled to myself by a frantic plucking at my wrist, and I
woman bent over me and tugged at me with her left hand, while she held
a candle in her right. It was the same good friend whose warning I had
feet and ran with her along the corridor and down a winding stair. The
latter led to another broad passage, and just as we reached it we heard
the sound of running feet and the shouting of two voices, one answering
the other from the floor on which  we were and from the one beneath. My
guide stopped and looked about her like one  who is at her wit’s end.
passage, and I saw the lean figure of Colonel Lysander Stark rushing
forward with a lantern in one hand and a weapon like a butcher’s
window, and looked out. How quiet and sweet and wholesome the garden
looked in the moonlight, and it could not be more than thirty feet
should have heard what passed between my saviour and the ruffian who
her arms round him and tried to hold him back.
He dashed her to one side, and, rushing to the window, cut at me with
his heavy weapon. I had let myself go, and was hanging by the hands to
loosened, and I fell into the garden below.
“I was shaken but not hurt by the fall; so I picked myself up and
ran, a deadly dizziness and sickness came over me. I glanced down at my
hand, which was throbbing painfully, and then, for the first time, saw
that my thumb had been cut off and that the blood was pouring from my
wound. I endeavoured to tie my handkerchief round it, but there came a
sudden buzzing in my ears, and next moment I fell in a dead faint among
very long time, for the moon had sunk, and a bright morning was
and my coat-sleeve was drenched with blood from my wounded thumb. The
adventure, and I sprang to my feet with the feeling that I might hardly
lying in an angle of the hedge close by the highroad, and just a little
Were it not for the ugly wound upon my hand, all that had passed during
“Half dazed, I went into the station and asked about the morning train.
whether he had ever heard of Colonel Lysander Stark. The name was
“It was too far for me to go, weak and ill as I was. I determined to
dressed, and then the doctor was kind enough to bring me along here. I
put the case into your hands and shall do exactly what you advise.”
engineer. Left his lodgings at ten o’clock at night, and has not been
“Undoubtedly. It is quite clear that the colonel was a cool and
desperate man, who was absolutely determined that nothing should stand
in the way of his little game, like those out-and-out pirates who will
precious, so if you feel equal to it we shall go down to Scotland Yard
Holmes, the hydraulic engineer, Inspector Bradstreet, of Scotland Yard,
a plain-clothes man, and myself. Bradstreet had spread an ordnance map
of the county out upon the seat and was busy with his compasses drawing
lifted and conveyed somewhere.”
“What I cannot understand,” said I, “is why they should have spared you
drawn my circle, and I only wish I knew at what point upon it the folk
“And I am for north,” said I, “because there are no hills there, and
“Six out and six back. Nothing simpler. You say yourself that the horse
was fresh and glossy when you got in. How could it be that if it had
“None at all,” said Holmes. “They are coiners on a large scale, and
inspector. “They have been turning out half-crowns by the thousand. We
hands. But now, thanks to this lucky chance, I think that we have got
to fall into the hands of justice. As we rolled into Eyford Station we
clump of trees in the neighbourhood and hung like an immense ostrich
feather over the landscape.
“I hear that it was during the night, sir, but it has got worse, and
Englishman, and there isn’t a man in the parish who has a better-lined
understand, who is a foreigner, and he looks as if a little good
hastening in the direction of the fire. The road topped a low hill, and
spouting fire at every chink and window, while in the garden in front
gravel-drive, and there are the rose-bushes where I lay. That second
a cart containing several people and some very bulky boxes driving
fugitives disappeared, and even Holmes’ ingenuity failed ever to
they had found within, and still more so by discovering a newly severed
however, their efforts were at last successful, and they subdued the
flames, but not before the roof had fallen in, and the whole place been
reduced to such absolute ruin that, save some twisted cylinders and
unfortunate acquaintance so dearly. Large masses of nickel and of tin
had remarkably small feet and the other unusually large ones. On the
thumb and I have lost a fifty-guinea fee, and what have I gained?”
The Lord St. Simon marriage, and its curious termination, have long
the unfortunate bridegroom moves. Fresh scandals have eclipsed it, and
full facts have never been revealed to the general public, and as my
to rain, with high autumnal winds, and the jezail bullet which I had
throbbed with dull persistence. With my body in one easy-chair and my
aside and lay listless, watching the huge crest and monogram upon the
envelope upon the table and wondering lazily who my friend’s noble
morning letters, if I remember right, were from a fish-monger and a
answered, smiling, “and the humbler are usually the more interesting.
He broke the seal and glanced over the contents.
“One of the highest in England.”
nothing except the criminal news and the agony column. The latter is
you must have read about Lord St. Simon and his wedding?”
“That is well. The letter which I hold in my hand is from Lord St.
Simon. I will read it to you, and in return you must turn over these
papers and let me have whatever bears upon the matter. This is what he
    place implicit reliance upon your judgment and discretion. I have
    determined, therefore, to call upon you and to consult you in
    connection with my wedding. Mr. Lestrade, of Scotland Yard, is
    objection to your co-operation, and that he even thinks that it
    afternoon, and, should you have any other engagement at that time,
“It is dated from Grosvenor Mansions, written with a quill pen, and the
subject. Turn over those papers and arrange the extracts in their order
mantelpiece. “Here he is,” said he, sitting down and flattening it out
Foreign Affairs. They inherit Plantagenet blood by direct descent, and
the facts are quite recent, and the matter struck me as remarkable. I
on hand and that you disliked the intrusion of other matters.”
column of the _Morning Post_, and dates, as you see, some weeks back:
‘A marriage has been arranged,’ it says, ‘and will, if rumour is
son of the Duke of Balmoral, and Miss Hatty Doran, the only daughter of
“Terse and to the point,” remarked Holmes, stretching his long, thin
hands of our fair cousins from across the Atlantic. An important
millionaire. Miss Doran, whose graceful figure and striking face
child, and it is currently reported that her dowry will run to
sell his pictures within the last few years, and as Lord St. Simon has
alliance which will enable her to make the easy and common transition
friends would be invited, and that the party would return to the
announcement that the wedding had taken place, and that the honeymoon
“They often vanish before the ceremony, and occasionally during the
consternation by the strange and painful episodes which have taken
Lord Eustace and Lady Clara St. Simon (the younger brother and sister
of the bridegroom), and Lady Alicia Whittington. The whole party
a painful and prolonged scene that she was ejected by the butler and
when she complained of a sudden indisposition and retired to her room.
for an instant, caught up an ulster and bonnet, and hurried down to the
police, and very energetic inquiries are being made, which will
matter, and it is said that the police have caused the arrest of the
at the Allegro, and that she has known the bridegroom for some years.
There are no further particulars, and the whole case is in your hands
missed it for worlds. But there is a ring at the bell, Watson, and as
and pale, with something perhaps of petulance about the mouth, and with
been to command and to be obeyed. His manner was brisk, and yet his
forward stoop and a little bend of the knees as he walked. His hair,
edges and thin upon the top. As to his dress, it was careful to the
waistcoat, yellow gloves, patent-leather shoes, and light-coloured
to right, and swinging in his right hand the cord which held his golden
“Good-day, Lord St. Simon,” said Holmes, rising and bowing. “Pray take
the basket-chair. This is my friend and colleague, Dr. Watson. Draw up
a little to the fire, and we will talk this matter over.”
Holmes. I have been cut to the quick. I understand that you have
“The King of Scandinavia.”
“You can understand,” said Holmes suavely, “that I extend to the
“I was amused by her society, and she could see that I was amused.”
invested it, and came up by leaps and bounds.”
The nobleman swung his glasses a little faster and stared down into the
camp and wandered through woods or mountains, so that her education has
in England a tomboy, with a strong nature, wild and free, unfettered by
She is swift in making up her mind and fearless in carrying out her
resolutions. On the other hand, I would not have given her the name
capable of heroic self-sacrifice and that anything dishonourable would
“I brought this with me.” He opened a locket and showed us the full
miniature, and the artist had brought out the full effect of the
lustrous black hair, the large dark eyes, and the exquisite mouth.
Holmes gazed long and earnestly at it. Then he closed the locket and
handed it back to Lord St. Simon.
“The young lady came to London, then, and you renewed your
her several times, became engaged to her, and have now married her.”
“She brought, I understand, a considerable dowry?”
too trivial to relate and can have no possible bearing upon the case.”
vestry. She was passing the front pew at the time, and it fell over
handed it up to her again, and it did not appear to be the worse for
abruptly; and in the carriage, on our way home, she seemed absurdly
think that we are wandering rather far from the point.”
“Alice is her name. She is an American and came from California with
muttered some words of apology, and left the room. She never came
“But this maid, Alice, as I understand, deposes that she went to her
and went out.”
company with Flora Millar, a woman who is now in custody, and who had
“Ah, yes. I should like a few particulars as to this young lady, and
Lord St. Simon shrugged his shoulders and raised his eyebrows. “We have
ungenerously, and she had no just cause of complaint against me, but
exceedingly hot-headed and devotedly attached to me. She wrote me
dreadful letters when she heard that I was about to be married, and, to
was that I feared lest there might be a scandal in the church. She came
to Mr. Doran’s door just after we returned, and she endeavoured to push
her way in, uttering very abusive expressions towards my wife, and even
sort, and I had two police fellows there in private clothes, who soon
“Yes. That is what Mr. Lestrade, of Scotland Yard, looks upon as so
serious. It is thought that Flora decoyed my wife out and laid some
“We could see the other side of the road and the Park.”
heads than yours or mine,” he remarked, and bowing in a stately,
shall have a whisky and soda and a cigar after all this
so well. There was a parallel instance in Aberdeen some years back, and
the sideboard, and there are cigars in the box.”
The official detective was attired in a pea-jacket and cravat, which
gave him a decidedly nautical appearance, and he carried a black canvas
bag in his hand. With a short greeting he seated himself and lit the
“And very wet it seems to have made you,” said Holmes laying his hand
Sherlock Holmes leaned back in his chair and laughed heartily.
it?” He opened his bag as he spoke, and tumbled onto the floor a
wedding-dress of watered silk, a pair of white satin shoes and a
bride’s wreath and veil, all discoloured and soaked in water. “There,”
have been identified as her clothes, and it seemed to me that if the
and your inferences. You have made two blunders in as many minutes.
that Lady St. Simon was decoyed away by Flora Millar, and that she,
quietly slipped into her hand at the door and which lured her within
attention instantly became riveted, and he gave a little cry of
Lestrade rose in his triumph and bent his head to look. “Why,” he
work and not in sitting by the fire spinning fine theories. Good-day,
Mr. Holmes, and we shall see which gets to the bottom of the matter
first.” He gathered up the garments, thrust them into the bag, and made
Simon is a myth. There is not, and there never has been, any such
forehead three times, shook his head solemnly, and hurried away.
youth whom he had brought with him, and presently, to my very great
ancient and cobwebby bottles. Having laid out all these luxuries, my
no explanation save that the things had been paid for and were ordered
“They have laid the supper, then,” he said, rubbing his hands.
dangling his glasses more vigorously than ever, and with a very
“Yes, and I confess that the contents startled me beyond measure. Have
Lord St. Simon sank into a chair and passed his hand over his forehead.
“Ah, you look on these things from another standpoint.”
“I will make no allowance. I am very angry indeed, and I have been
the landing. If I cannot persuade you to take a lenient view of the
successful.” He opened the door and ushered in a lady and gentleman.
“Lord St. Simon,” said he “allow me to introduce you to Mr. and Mrs.
At the sight of these newcomers our client had sprung from his seat and
stood very erect, with his eyes cast down and his hand thrust into the
taken a quick step forward and had held out her hand to him, but he
“Oh, yes, I know that I have treated you real bad and that I should
have spoken to you before I went; but I was kind of rattled, and from
doing or saying. I only wonder I didn’t fall down and do a faint right
“Perhaps, Mrs. Moulton, you would like my friend and me to leave the
I should like all Europe and America to hear the rights of it.” He was
a small, wiry, sunburnt man, clean-shaven, with a sharp face and alert
“Then I’ll tell our story right away,” said the lady. “Frank here and I
claim. We were engaged to each other, Frank and I; but then one day
father struck a rich pocket and made a pile, while poor Frank here had
a claim that petered out and came to nothing. The richer Pa grew the
any longer, and he took me away to ’Frisco. Frank wouldn’t throw up his
hand, though; so he followed me there, and he saw me without Pa knowing
fixed it all up for ourselves. Frank said that he would go and make his
pile, too, and never come back to claim me until he had as much as Pa.
So then I promised to wait for him to the end of time and pledged
married right away, then,’ said he, ‘and then I will feel sure of you;
and I won’t claim to be your husband until I come back?’ Well, we
talked it over, and he had fixed it all up so nicely, with a clergyman
all ready in waiting, that we just did it right there; and then Frank
went off to seek his fortune, and I went back to Pa.
“The next I heard of Frank was that he was in Montana, and then he went
prospecting in Arizona, and then I heard of him from New Mexico. After
attacked by Apache Indians, and there was my Frank’s name among the
killed. I fainted dead away, and I was very sick for months after. Pa
thought I had a decline and took me to half the doctors in ’Frisco. Not
a word of news came for a year and more, so that I never doubted that
Frank was really dead. Then Lord St. Simon came to ’Frisco, and we came
to London, and a marriage was arranged, and Pa was very pleased, but I
duty by him. We can’t command our love, but we can our actions. I went
as I came to the altar rails, I glanced back and saw Frank standing and
round, and the words of the clergyman were just like the buzz of a bee
in my ear. I didn’t know what to do. Should I stop the service and make
a scene in the church? I glanced at him again, and he seemed to know
be still. Then I saw him scribble on a piece of paper, and I knew that
my bouquet over to him, and he slipped the note into my hand when he
that my first duty was now to him, and I determined to do just whatever
“When I got back I told my maid, who had known him in California, and
few things packed and my ulster ready. I know I ought to have spoken to
Lord St. Simon, but it was dreadful hard before his mother and all
those great people. I just made up my mind to run away and explain
out of the window at the other side of the road. He beckoned to me and
then began walking into the Park. I slipped out, put on my things, and
her and soon overtook Frank. We got into a cab together, and away we
drove to some lodgings he had taken in Gordon Square, and that was my
I had given him up for dead and had gone to England, followed me there,
and had come upon me at last on the very morning of my second wedding.”
“I saw it in a paper,” explained the American. “It gave the name and
“Then we had a talk as to what we should do, and Frank was all for
like to vanish away and never see any of them again—just sending a line
think of all those lords and ladies sitting round that breakfast-table
and waiting for me to come back. So Frank took my wedding-clothes and
things and made a bundle of them, so that I should not be traced, and
found us is more than I can think, and he showed us very clearly and
kindly that I was wrong and that Frank was right, and that we should be
give us a chance of talking to Lord St. Simon alone, and so we came
all, and I am very sorry if I have given you pain, and I hope that you
listened with a frowning brow and a compressed lip to this long
“Then you won’t forgive me? You won’t shake hands before I go?”
“Oh, certainly, if it would give you any pleasure.” He put out his hand
and coldly grasped that which she extended to him.
all in a sweeping bow and stalked out of the room.
for I am one of those who believe that the folly of a monarch and the
Stars and Stripes.”
sequence of events as narrated by this lady, and nothing stranger than
the result when viewed, for instance, by Mr. Lestrade of Scotland
Then who could this American be, and why should he possess so much
influence over her? It might be a lover; it might be a husband. Her
young womanhood had, I knew, been spent in rough scenes and under
the dropping of a bouquet, of her resort to her confidential maid, and
gone off with a man, and the man was either a lover or was a previous
husband—the chances being in favour of the latter.”
his hands the value of which he did not himself know. The initials
“By the select prices. Eight shillings for a bed and eightpence for a
visited in Northumberland Avenue, I learned by an inspection of the
day before, and on looking over the entries against him, I came upon
to be forwarded to 226 Gordon Square; so thither I travelled, and being
them some paternal advice and to point out to them that it would be
clearer both to the general public and to Lord St. Simon in particular.
I invited them to meet him here, and, as you see, I made him keep the
gracious either, if, after all the trouble of wooing and wedding, you
found yourself deprived in an instant of wife and of fortune. I think
that we may judge Lord St. Simon very mercifully and thank our stars
your chair up and hand me my violin, for the only problem we have still
My friend rose lazily from his armchair and stood with his hands in the
bright, crisp February morning, and the snow of the day before still
band by the traffic, but at either side and on the heaped-up edges of
had been cleaned and scraped, but was still dangerously slippery, so
He was a man of about fifty, tall, portly, and imposing, with a
massive, strongly marked face and a commanding figure. He was dressed
brown gaiters, and well-cut pearl-grey trousers. Yet his actions were
in absurd contrast to the dignity of his dress and features, for he was
jerked his hands up and down, waggled his head, and writhed his face
“I believe that he is coming here,” said Holmes, rubbing his hands.
the man, puffing and blowing, rushed at our door and pulled at our bell
gesticulating, but with so fixed a look of grief and despair in his
eyes that our smiles were turned in an instant to horror and pity. For
a while he could not get his words out, but swayed his body and plucked
the wall with such force that we both rushed upon him and tore him away
easy-chair and, sitting beside him, patted his hand and chatted with
yourself, and then I shall be most happy to look into any little
his emotion. Then he passed his handkerchief over his brow, set his
lips tight, and turned his face towards us.
sudden and so terrible is it. Public disgrace I might have faced,
together, and in so frightful a form, have been enough to shake my very
soul. Besides, it is not I alone. The very noblest in the land may
“Pray compose yourself, sir,” said Holmes, “and let me have a clear
account of who you are and what it is that has befallen you.”
am Alexander Holder, of the banking firm of Holder & Stevenson, of
co-operation. I came to Baker Street by the Underground and hurried
exercise. I feel better now, and I will put the facts before you as
shortly and yet as clearly as I can.
investments for our funds as upon our increasing our connection and the
have done a good deal in this direction during the last few years, and
in England. I was overwhelmed by the honour and attempted, when he
and to carry out that business myself. In my position you can readily
understand that it is unwise to place one’s self under obligations.’
“‘Next Monday I have a large sum due to me, and I shall then most
more than it could bear. If, on the other hand, I am to do it in the
“‘Precisely.’ He opened the case, and there, imbedded in soft,
had named. ‘There are thirty-nine enormous beryls,’ said he, ‘and the
“I took the precious case into my hands and looked in some perplexity
“‘You understand, Mr. Holder, that I am giving you a strong proof of
of you. I rely upon you not only to be discreet and to refrain from all
scandal would be caused if any harm were to befall it. Any injury to it
beryls in the world to match these, and it would be impossible to
replace them. I leave it with you, however, with every confidence, and
doubt that, as it was a national possession, a horrible scandal would
the matter now, so I locked it up in my private safe and turned once
forced before now, and why should not mine be? If so, how terrible
backward and forward with me, so that it might never be really out of
my reach. With this intention, I called a cab and drove out to my house
until I had taken it upstairs and locked it in the bureau of my
thoroughly understand the situation. My groom and my page sleep out of
the house, and may be set aside altogether. I have three maid-servants
who have been with me a number of years and whose absolute reliability
character, however, and has always given me satisfaction. She is a very
pretty girl and has attracted admirers who have occasionally hung about
not take me long to describe it. I am a widower and have an only son,
business, but he was not of a business turn. He was wild, wayward, and,
to speak the truth, I could not trust him in the handling of large sums
and there, having charming manners, he was soon the intimate of a
number of men with long purses and expensive habits. He learned to play
heavily at cards and to squander money on the turf, until he had again
and again to come to me and implore me to give him an advance upon his
my house, and I have found myself that I could hardly resist the
brilliant talker, and a man of great personal beauty. Yet when I think
convinced from his cynical speech and the look which I have caught in
and so, too, thinks my little Mary, who has a woman’s quick insight
my brother died five years ago and left her alone in the world I
adopted her, and have looked upon her ever since as my daughter. She is
a sunbeam in my house—sweet, loving, beautiful, a wonderful manager and
housekeeper, yet as tender and quiet and gentle as a woman could be.
She is my right hand. I do not know what I could do without her. In
right path it would have been she, and that his marriage might have
“Now, Mr. Holmes, you know the people who live under my roof, and I
dinner, I told Arthur and Mary my experience, and of the precious
the room; but I cannot swear that the door was closed. Mary and Arthur
were much interested and wished to see the famous coronet, but I
‘I could not bear the disgrace. I must raise the money in some way, and
“I was very angry, for this was the third demand during the month. ‘You
shall not have a farthing from me,’ I cried, on which he bowed and left
safe, and locked it again. Then I started to go round the house to see
I saw Mary herself at the side window of the hall, which she closed and
hardly safe and should be stopped.’
“‘Then, good-night.’ I kissed her and went up to my bedroom again,
particularly so. I am not a very heavy sleeper, and the anxiety in my
palpitating with fear, and peeped round the corner of my dressing-room
“The gas was half up, as I had left it, and my unhappy boy, dressed
only in his shirt and trousers, was standing beside the light, holding
the coronet in his hands. He appeared to be wrenching at it, or bending
it with all his strength. At my cry he dropped it from his grasp and
turned as pale as death. I snatched it up and examined it. One of the
“‘You have called me names enough,’ said he, ‘I will not stand it any
have chosen to insult me. I will leave your house in the morning and
“‘You shall leave it in the hands of the police!’ I cried half-mad with
grief and rage. ‘I shall have this matter probed to the bottom.’
my anger. Mary was the first to rush into my room, and, at the sight of
the coronet and of Arthur’s face, she read the whole story and, with a
police and put the investigation into their hands at once. When the
inspector and a constable entered the house, Arthur, who had stood
of one who was far greater than I was at stake; and that he threatened
to raise a scandal which would convulse the nation. He might avert it
the act, and no confession could make your guilt more heinous. If you
beryls are, all shall be forgiven and forgotten.’
inspector and gave him into custody. A search was made at once not only
of his person but of his room and of every portion of the house where
persuasions and our threats. This morning he was removed to a cell, and
honour, my gems, and my son in one night. Oh, what shall I do!”
He put a hand on either side of his head and rocked himself to and fro,
and his eyes fixed upon the fire.
“None save my partner with his family and an occasional friend of
“Arthur does. Mary and I stay at home. We neither of us care for it.”
four-and-twenty.”
his hands.”
“God bless you! You are doing what you can for him and for me. But it
“They are still sounding the planking and probing the furniture in the
thirty-nine, with such skill that nobody can find them, and then
please, Mr. Holder, we will set off for Streatham together, and devote
I was eager enough to do, for my curiosity and sympathy were deeply
breast and his hat drawn over his eyes, sunk in the deepest thought.
hope which had been presented to him, and he even broke into a
journey and a shorter walk brought us to Fairbank, the modest residence
Fairbank was a good-sized square house of white stone, standing back a
kitchen door, and forming the tradesmen’s entrance. On the left ran a
lane which led to the stables, and was not itself within the grounds at
standing at the door and walked slowly all round the house, across the
front, down the tradesmen’s path, and so round by the garden behind
into the stable lane. So long was he that Mr. Holder and I went into
the dining-room and waited by the fire until he should return. We were
sitting there in silence when the door opened and a young lady came in.
She was rather above the middle height, slim, with dark hair and eyes,
sense of grief than the banker had done in the morning, and it was the
went straight to her uncle and passed her hand over his head with a
are. I know that he has done no harm and that you will be sorry for
coronet in his hand?”
word for it that he is innocent. Let the matter drop and say no more.
“I fully share your opinion, and I trust, with you, that we may prove
“Nothing, until my uncle here began to speak loudly. I heard that, and
“You shut up the windows and doors the night before. Did you fasten all
“Yes, and she was the girl who waited in the drawing-room, and who may
and that the two may have planned the robbery.”
in his hands?”
opened and made a very careful examination of the sill with his
a grey carpet, a large bureau, and a long mirror. Holmes went to the
bureau first and looked hard at the lock.
Sherlock Holmes took it up and opened the bureau.
look at it.” He opened the case, and taking out the diadem he laid it
and the thirty-six stones were the finest that I have ever seen. At one
of your bed and that you heard nothing of it?”
“He had nothing on save only his trousers and shirt.”
during this inquiry, and it will be entirely our own fault if we do not
and his features as inscrutable as ever.
The banker wrung his hands. “I shall never see them again!” he cried.
between nine and ten I shall be happy to do what I can to make it
clearer. I understand that you give me _carte blanche_ to act for you,
provided only that I get back the gems, and that you place no limit on
“Very good. I shall look into the matter between this and then.
chamber and was down again in a few minutes dressed as a common loafer.
With his collar turned up, his shiny, seedy coat, his red cravat, and
the joint upon the sideboard, sandwiched it between two rounds of
bread, and thrusting this rude meal into his pocket he started off upon
spirits, swinging an old elastic-sided boot in his hand. He chucked it
down into a corner and helped himself to a cup of tea.
little problem, and I would not have missed it for a good deal.
clothes off and return to my highly respectable self.”
than his words alone would imply. His eyes twinkled, and there was even
a touch of colour upon his sallow cheeks. He hastened upstairs, and a
days and nights on end when he was hot upon a scent, so that his
cup of coffee in one hand and the paper in the other, as fresh and trim
and massive mould, was now pinched and fallen in, while his hair seemed
to me at least a shade whiter. He entered with a weariness and lethargy
and he dropped heavily into the armchair which I pushed forward for
“Only two days ago I was a happy and prosperous man, without a care in
the world. Now I am left to a lonely and dishonoured age. One sorrow
and a note for me lay upon the hall table. I had said to her last
night, in sorrow and not in anger, that if she had married my boy all
    and that if I had acted differently this terrible misfortune might
    again be happy under your roof, and I feel that I must leave you
    and, above all, do not search for me, for it will be fruitless
    labour and an ill-service to me. In life or in death, I am ever
“That would be unnecessary. Three thousand will cover the matter. And
gems in it, and threw it down upon the table.
The reaction of joy was as passionate as his grief had been, and he
“Owe!” He caught up a pen. “Name the sum, and I will pay it.”
“I told you yesterday, and I repeat to-day, that it was not.”
with him, and finding that he would not tell me the story, I told it to
him, on which he had to confess that I was right and to add the very
“I will do so, and I will show you the steps by which I reached it. And
let me say to you, first, that which it is hardest for me to say and
for you to hear: there has been an understanding between Sir George
Burnwell and your niece Mary. They have now fled together.”
your family circle. He is one of the most dangerous men in England—a
he said, but at least she became his tool and was in the habit of
“I cannot, and I will not, believe it!” cried the banker with an ashen
and talked to her lover through the window which leads into the stable
kindled at the news, and he bent her to his will. I have no doubt that
extinguishes all other loves, and I think that she must have been one.
downstairs, on which she closed the window rapidly and told you about
and, looking out, was surprised to see his cousin walking very
clothes and waited there in the dark to see what would come of this
strange affair. Presently she emerged from the room again, and in the
coronet in her hands. She passed down the stairs, and he, thrilling
with horror, ran along and slipped behind the curtain near your door,
stealthily open the window, hand out the coronet to someone in the
gloom, and then closing it once more hurry back to her room, passing
and how all-important it was to set it right. He rushed down, just as
and ran down the lane, where he could see a dark figure in the
him, and there was a struggle between them, your lad tugging at one
side of the coronet, and his opponent at the other. In the scuffle,
your son struck Sir George and cut him over the eye. Then something
suddenly snapped, and your son, finding that he had the coronet in his
hands, rushed back, closed the window, ascended to your room, and had
just observed that the coronet had been twisted in the struggle and was
little enough consideration at his hands. He took the more chivalrous
view, however, and preserved her secret.”
“And that was why she shrieked and fainted when she saw the coronet,”
before, and also that there had been a strong frost to preserve
trampled down and indistinguishable. Just beyond it, however, at the
far side of the kitchen door, a woman had stood and talked with a man,
back swiftly to the door, as was shown by the deep toe and light heel
marks, while Wooden-leg had waited a little, and then had gone away. I
thought at the time that this might be the maid and her sweetheart, of
whom you had already spoken to me, and inquiry showed it was so. I
passed round the garden without seeing anything more than random
lane a very long and complex story was written in the snow in front of
“There was a double line of tracks of a booted man, and a second double
son. The first had walked both ways, but the other had run swiftly, and
was obvious that he had passed after the other. I followed them up and
the snow was cut up as though there had been a struggle, and, finally,
mistaken. Boots had then run down the lane, and another little smudge
and framework of the hall window with my lens, and I could at once see
opponent. So far I was clear. The question now was, who was the man and
your niece and the maids. But if it were the maids, why should your son
window, and how she had fainted on seeing the coronet again, my
who else could outweigh the love and gratitude which she must feel to
you? I knew that you went out little, and that your circle of friends
must have been he who wore those boots and retained the missing gems.
head the night before, and, finally, at the expense of six shillings,
journeyed down to Streatham and saw that they exactly fitted the
“Precisely. It was I. I found that I had my man, so I came home and
for I saw that a prosecution must be avoided to avert scandal, and I
knew that so astute a villain would see that our hands were tied in the
matter. I went and saw him. At first, of course, he denied everything.
bluster and took down a life-preserver from the wall. I knew my man,
however, and I clapped a pistol to his head before he could strike.
would be no prosecution. Off I set to him, and after much chaffering I
him that all was right, and eventually got to my bed about two o’clock,
“A day which has saved England from a great public scandal,” said the
frequently in its least important and lowliest manifestations that the
records of our cases which you have been good enough to draw up, and, I
not so much to the many _causes célèbres_ and sensational trials in
deduction and of logical synthesis which I have made my special
the tongs and lighting with it the long cherry-wood pipe which was wont
meditative mood—“you have erred perhaps in attempting to put colour and
It was a cold morning of the early spring, and we sat after breakfast
thick fog rolled down between the lines of dun-coloured houses, and the
yellow wreaths. Our gas was lit and shone on the white cloth and
glimmer of china and metal, for the table had not been cleared yet.
puffing at his long pipe and gazing down into the fire, “you can hardly
Miss Mary Sutherland, the problem connected with the man with the
twisted lip, and the incident of the noble bachelor, were all matters
been novel and of interest.”
his left thumb, care about the finer shades of analysis and deduction!
enterprise and originality. As to my own little practice, it seems to
be degenerating into an agency for recovering lost lead pencils and
It was dated from Montague Place upon the preceding evening, and ran
“Yes, and I have no doubt that is her ring.”
As he spoke the door opened and a young lady entered the room. She was
plover’s egg, and with the brisk manner of a woman who has had her own
and as I have no parents or relations of any sort from whom I could ask
I could see that Holmes was favourably impressed by the manner and
and then composed himself, with his lids drooping and his finger-tips
appointment at Halifax, in Nova Scotia, and took his children over to
advertised, and I answered advertisements, but without success. At last
the little money which I had saved began to run short, and I was at my
Westaway’s, and there I used to call about once a week in order to see
Stoper. She sits in her own little office, and the ladies who are
seeking employment wait in an anteroom, and are then shown in one by
one, when she consults her ledgers and sees whether she has anything
man with a very smiling face and a great heavy chin which rolled down
As I came in he gave quite a jump in his chair and turned quickly to
Capital! capital!’ He seemed quite enthusiastic and rubbed his hands
hands out into the air like a man who is in a boiling passion. ‘How
could anyone offer so pitiful a sum to a lady with such attractions and
little French, a little German, music, and drawing—’
point is, have you or have you not the bearing and deportment of a
perhaps the look of incredulity upon my face, opened a pocket-book and
beforehand, so that they may meet any little expenses of their journey
and their wardrobe.’
“It seemed to me that I had never met so fascinating and so thoughtful
great convenience, and yet there was something unnatural about the
young lady, and the dearest old country-house.’
gone before you could wink!’ He leaned back in his chair and laughed
obey any little commands my wife might give, provided always that they
were such commands as a lady might with propriety obey. You see no
hair is somewhat luxuriant, and of a rather peculiar tint of chestnut.
this offhand fashion.
watching me eagerly out of his small eyes, and I could see a shadow
fancy of my wife’s, and ladies’ fancies, you know, madam, ladies’
handsome commission through my refusal.
Good-day to you, Miss Hunter.’ She struck a gong upon the table, and I
“Well, Mr. Holmes, when I got back to my lodgings and found little
enough in the cupboard, and two or three bills upon the table, I began
if these people had strange fads and expected obedience on the most
eccentricity. Very few governesses in England are getting £ 100 a year.
wearing it short and perhaps I should be among the number. Next day I
was inclined to think that I had made a mistake, and by the day after I
the agency and inquire whether the place was still open when I received
this letter from the gentleman himself. I have it here and I will read
    address, and I write from here to ask you whether you have
    of a particular shade of electric blue and would like you to wear
    point, and I only hope that the increased salary may recompense you
    very light. Now do try to come, and I shall meet you with the
“That is the letter which I have just received, Mr. Holmes, and my mind
she should be taken to an asylum, and that he humours her fancies in
“That is a possible solution—in fact, as matters stand, it is the most
“I thought that if I told you the circumstances you would understand
to-night, and start for Winchester to-morrow.” With a few grateful
words to Holmes she bade us both good-night and bustled off upon her
in her direction and wondering what strange side-alley of human
hour on end, with knitted brows and an abstracted air, but he swept the
matter away with a wave of his hand when I mentioned it. “Data! data!
was thinking of turning in and Holmes was settling down to one of those
would leave him stooping over a retort and a test-tube at night and
morning. He opened the yellow envelope, and then, glancing at the
“Just look up the trains in Bradshaw,” said he, and turned back to his
The summons was a brief and urgent one.
down and began to admire the scenery. It was an ideal spring day, a
from west to east. The sun was shining very brightly, and yet there was
the little red and grey roofs of the farm-steadings peeped out from
“Are they not fresh and beautiful?” I cried with all the enthusiasm of
my own special subject. You look at these scattered houses, and you are
impressed by their beauty. I look at them, and the only thought which
comes to me is a feeling of their isolation and of the impunity with
founded upon my experience, that the lowest and vilest alleys in London
do not present a more dreadful record of sin than does the smiling and
does not beget sympathy and indignation among the neighbours, and then
complaint can set it going, and there is but a step between the crime
and the dock. But look at these lonely houses, each in its own fields,
may go on, year in, year out, in such places, and none the wiser. Had
find waiting for us. Well, there is the tower of the cathedral, and we
from the station, and there we found the young lady waiting for us. She
had engaged a sitting-room, and our lunch awaited us upon the table.
“I will do so, and I must be quick, for I have promised Mr. Rucastle to
legs out towards the fire and composed himself to listen.
actual ill-treatment from Mr. and Mrs. Rucastle. It is only fair to
them to say that. But I cannot understand them, and I am not easy in my
“What can you not understand?”
occurred. When I came down, Mr. Rucastle met me here and drove me in
block of a house, whitewashed, but all stained and streaked with damp
and bad weather. There are grounds round it, woods on three sides, and
“I was driven over by my employer, who was as amiable as ever, and was
introduced by him that evening to his wife and the child. There was no
be a silent, pale-faced woman, much younger than her husband, not more
married about seven years, that he was a widower, and that his only
her husband and to her little son. Her light grey eyes wandered
continually from one to the other, noting every little want and
boisterous fashion, and on the whole they seemed to be a happy couple.
met so utterly spoiled and so ill-natured a little creature. He is
fits of passion and gloomy intervals of sulking. Giving pain to any
creature weaker than himself seems to be his one idea of amusement, and
little birds, and insects. But I would rather not talk about the
creature, Mr. Holmes, and, indeed, he has little to do with my story.”
thing about the house, which struck me at once, was the appearance and
conduct of the servants. There are only two, a man and his wife.
hair and whiskers, and a perpetual smell of drink. Twice since I have
been with them he has been quite drunk, and yet Mr. Rucastle seemed to
take no notice of it. His wife is a very tall and strong woman with a
sour face, as silent as Mrs. Rucastle and much less amiable. They are a
nursery and my own room, which are next to each other in one corner of
quiet; on the third, Mrs. Rucastle came down just after breakfast and
whispered something to her husband.
you. You will find it laid out upon the bed in your room, and if you
better fit if I had been measured for it. Both Mr. and Mrs. Rucastle
this I was asked to sit, and then Mr. Rucastle, walking up and down on
was, and I laughed until I was quite weary. Mrs. Rucastle, however, who
her hands in her lap, and a sad, anxious look upon her face. After an
the duties of the day, and that I might change my dress and go to
window, and again I laughed very heartily at the funny stories of which
my employer had an immense _répertoire_, and which he told inimitably.
Then he handed me a yellow-backed novel, and moving my chair a little
heart of a chapter, and then suddenly, in the middle of a sentence, he
ordered me to cease and to change my dress.
devised a means. My hand-mirror had been broken, so a happy thought
seized me, and I concealed a piece of the glass in my handkerchief. On
the next occasion, in the midst of my laughter, I put my handkerchief
up to my eyes, and was able with a little management to see all that
however, I perceived that there was a man standing in the Southampton
my direction. The road is an important highway, and there are usually
bordered our field and was looking earnestly up. I lowered my
handkerchief and glanced at Mrs. Rucastle to find her eyes fixed upon
that she had divined that I had a mirror in my hand and had seen what
“‘Dear me! How very impertinent! Kindly turn round and motion to him to
and wave him away like that.’
“I did as I was told, and at the same instant Mrs. Rucastle drew down
the blind. That was a week ago, and from that time I have not sat again
“You will find it rather disconnected, I fear, and there may prove to
me to a small outhouse which stands near the kitchen door. As we
approached it I heard the sharp rattling of a chain, and the sound as
“I looked through and was conscious of two glowing eyes, and of a vague
feed him once a day, and not too much then, so that he is always as
keen as mustard. Toller lets him loose every night, and God help the
beautiful moonlight night, and the lawn in front of the house was
silvered over and almost as bright as day. I was standing, rapt in the
tawny tinted, with hanging jowl, black muzzle, and huge projecting
bones. It walked slowly across the lawn and vanished into the shadow
know, cut off my hair in London, and I had placed it in a great coil at
began to amuse myself by examining the furniture of my room and by
the room, the two upper ones empty and open, the lower one locked. I
had filled the first two with my linen, and as I had still much to pack
took out my bunch of keys and tried to open it. The very first key
fitted to perfection, and I drew the drawer open. There was only one
“I took it up and examined it. It was of the same peculiar tint, and
trembling hands I undid my trunk, turned out the contents, and drew
from the bottom my own hair. I laid the two tresses together, and I
the strange hair to the drawer, and I said nothing of the matter to the
“I am naturally observant, as you may have remarked, Mr. Holmes, and I
his keys in his hand, and a look on his face which made him a very
cheeks were red, his brow was all crinkled with anger, and the veins
stood out at his temples with passion. He locked the door and hurried
up. They were evidently all deserted. As I strolled up and down,
merry and jovial as ever.
to have quite a suite of spare rooms up there, and one of them has the
“He looked surprised and, as it seemed to me, a little startled at my
me. I read suspicion there and annoyance, but no jest.
At any rate, it was there, and I was keenly on the lookout for any
besides Mr. Rucastle, both Toller and his wife find something to do in
these deserted rooms, and I once saw him carrying a large black linen
bag with him through the door. Recently he has been drinking hard, and
yesterday evening he was very drunk; and when I came upstairs there was
Mr. and Mrs. Rucastle were both downstairs, and the child was with
in the lock, opened the door, and slipped through.
“There was a little passage in front of me, unpapered and uncarpeted,
were three doors in a line, the first and third of which were open.
They each led into an empty room, dusty and cheerless, with two windows
in the one and one in the other, so thick with dirt that the evening
light glimmered dimly through them. The centre door was closed, and
iron bed, padlocked at one end to a ring in the wall, and fastened at
the other with stout cord. The door itself was locked as well, and the
shuttered window outside, and yet I could see by the glimmer from
gazing at the sinister door and wondering what secret it might veil, I
suddenly heard the sound of steps within the room and saw a shadow pass
backward and forward against the little slit of dim light which shone
sight, Mr. Holmes. My overstrung nerves failed me suddenly, and I
turned and ran—ran as though some dreadful hand were behind me
the door, and straight into the arms of Mr. Rucastle, who was waiting
caressing and soothing his manner was—‘and what has frightened you, my
is so lonely and eerie in this dim light that I was frightened and ran
rage, and he glared down at me with the face of a demon—‘I’ll throw you
made up. I would send you a wire. I put on my hat and cloak, went down
to the office, which is about half a mile from the house, and then
evening, and I knew that he was the only one in the household who had
free. I slipped in in safety and lay awake half the night in my joy at
for Mr. and Mrs. Rucastle are going on a visit, and will be away all
all my adventures, Mr. Holmes, and I should be very glad if you could
tell me what it all means, and, above all, what I should do.”
Holmes and I had listened spellbound to this extraordinary story. My
friend rose now and paced up and down the room, his hands in his
pockets, and an expression of the most profound gravity upon his face.
and sensible girl, Miss Hunter. Do you think that you could perform one
“We shall be at the Copper Beeches by seven o’clock, my friend and I.
The Rucastles will be gone by that time, and Toller will, we hope, be
you could send her into the cellar on some errand, and then turn the
personate someone, and the real person is imprisoned in this chamber.
height, figure, and the colour of your hair. Hers had been cut off,
very possibly in some illness through which she has passed, and so, of
hers—possibly her _fiancé_—and no doubt, as you wore the girl’s dress
and were so like her, he was convinced from your laughter, whenever he
saw you, and afterwards from your gesture, that Miss Rucastle was
perfectly happy, and that she no longer desired his attentions. The dog
sake, and whether he derives this from his smiling father, as I should
thousand things come back to me which make me certain that you have hit
and it will not be long before we solve the mystery.”
had Miss Hunter not been standing smiling on the door-step.
Toller in the cellar,” said she. “Her husband lies snoring on the
the way, and we shall soon see the end of this black business.”
and found ourselves in front of the barricade which Miss Hunter had
described. Holmes cut the cord and removed the transverse bar. Then he
from within, and at the silence Holmes’ face clouded over.
it, and we shall see whether we cannot make our way in.”
It was an old rickety door and gave at once before our united strength.
save a little pallet bed, a small table, and a basketful of linen. The
skylight above was open, and the prisoner gone.
guessed Miss Hunter’s intentions and has carried his victim off.”
“He has come back and done it. I tell you that he is a clever and
door of the room, a very fat and burly man, with a heavy stick in his
hand. Miss Hunter screamed and shrunk against the wall at the sight of
him, but Sherlock Holmes sprang forward and confronted him.
The fat man cast his eyes round, and then up at the open skylight.
“It is for me to ask you that,” he shrieked, “you thieves! Spies and
you!” He turned and clattered down the stairs as hard as he could go.
“Better close the front door,” cried Holmes, and we all rushed down the
baying of a hound, and then a scream of agony, with a horrible worrying
face and shaking limbs came staggering out at a side door.
Holmes and I rushed out and round the angle of the house, with Toller
buried in Rucastle’s throat, while he writhed and screamed upon the
ground. Running up, I blew its brains out, and it fell over with its
much labour we separated them and carried him, living but horribly
mangled, into the house. We laid him upon the drawing-room sofa, and
when the door opened, and a tall, gaunt woman entered the room.
“Yes, sir, I do, and I am ready enough to tell what I know.”
“Then, pray, sit down, and let us hear it for there are several points
“I will soon make it clear to you,” said she; “and I’d have done so
that stood your friend, and that I was Miss Alice’s friend too.
father married again. She was slighted like and had no say in anything,
her own by will, but she was so quiet and patient, she was, that she
hands. He knew he was safe with her; but when there was a chance of a
husband coming forward, who would ask for all that the law would give
brain-fever, and for six weeks was at death’s door. Then she got better
at last, all worn to a shadow, and with her beautiful hair cut off; but
that didn’t make no change in her young man, and he stuck to her as
us makes the matter fairly clear, and that I can deduce all that
blockaded the house, and having met you succeeded by certain arguments,
“Mr. Fowler was a very kind-spoken, free-handed gentleman,” said Mrs.
drink, and that a ladder should be ready at the moment when your master
the country surgeon and Mrs. Rucastle, so I think, Watson, that we had
_locus standi_ now is rather a questionable one.”
Fowler and Miss Rucastle were married, by special license, in
Southampton the day after their flight, and he is now the holder of a
government appointment in the island of Mauritius. As to Miss Violet
one of his problems, and she is now the head of a private school at
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the
United States without permission and without paying copyright
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away--you may
Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact
Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without
widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
